Inspired by a country of extremes, Icelandic band SIGN presents something different with their powerful music. Sophisticated guitar fused with beautiful melodies and a monster rhythm section being treasured and executed in the true style of big sounding rock. 

SIGN have defined their music in a modern, unique sound, based on old school rock, performing it with fierce and confident musicianship that surpasses their young age. A powerful, tight set involving Zolberg ’s unique voice gives the impression of excitement.

SIGN came together in early 2001 to compete against 30 other bands in Battle of the Bands in Iceland. They finished in second place and Zolberg was awarded the title of "Best Singer," claiming afterwards in newspaper interviews that he is first and foremost a guitarist. At 7 years of age, Zoilberg would entertain at family parties imitating Hendrix, playing behind his back. At the age of 14, he no longer needed a mentor.

Later that year (2001), they recorded and released their first album "Vindar og breytingar" (Winds and Changes). The album’s first single "Cassandra" shot straight up to number one in the Icelandic top 20 rock chart and was the starting point of a strong fan base. In 2002 SIGN released "Fyrir Ofan Himininn" (Above the Sky). 

The band recorded and released their third album this year, going straight to number 12 on the official Icelandic sales chart. In the preparation for the release, SIGN, were fortunate enough to work with New York producer, Mark Plati, and legendary guitarist, Earl Slick on three of the tracks. 

This was an inspiring collaboration where Mark managed to focus on the core of the music and underline the strength of the band. It didn’t come as a surprise that one of the tracks, "A Little Bit", has been playlisted on national radio in Iceland along with two of the main rock stations.

 About SIGN


Band MembersZolberg: Guitar, vox.
Eagle: Drums.
Heimir: Bass.
A.D.: Guitar.
Aggi : keyboards, guitar
Album reviews

“infectious, melodic Rock” 8/10 Rock Sound

“the future looks bright for these boys” 7/10 Powerplay

“Picture perfect Nordic rockers make Icy cool Fourth album.”
KKKK Kerrang!

““the Icelandic quintet could be Euro-metal’s next big thing.”
4/5 Q magazine

“this lives up to the high benchmark Sign have set onstage”
Alternative Magazine

"I haven't heard a rock prospect like this for a long time; they must be destined for big things. A talent like this is a real gift"
Selby Times

Live reviews

“the Icelandic rockers..chunky riffs provide a perfect start to the day”
Kerrang! at Download 08

“Driving hard rock with great riffs, great songs and loads of attitude.”
Metal Hammer  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sign">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.