SigNos is an anonymous avantgarde influenced project, both based in the Netherlands and Argentina, formed in Tilburg/Amsterdam. 
 
The original lineup consisted of DJ Bart and SantiOriginal.

SigNos reformed in with new member Ricky (Buenos Aires - San Telmo, Argentina) as guest artist.

Free tracks can be downloaded at www.lastfm.com

Article from Brabants Dagblad of 06-06-2002, 

"they think here soon: what an odd ' by Pauline van der Vlugt Thursday, 6 June 2002-

Best scare as the songs you out of pure pleasure with a good friend, all of a sudden a lot in the club scene be rotated. It happened to SigNos and resulted in a doordachtere and serious approach to their music. Soon the duo a first CD. 
The promo ' … Refugee Base … ' is promising. Electronic Body Music, that is to say, EBM, in the style of VNV Nation and Apoptygma Bezerk, but from our own good. Santi van Nuenen (vocals) comes from Tilburg and Bart van den Courts (samples) lives in Amsterdam. Santi is half Spanish and provides both English and Spanish-speaking texts mainly focus on the lack of respect and humanity in the world today. At the same time, he wants the music of SigNos not gothic. "That is such a sensitive word, people think the same 'bah, doom '. While with us to dance. " 
Documents the said club scene is in any case, a small in the Netherlands. Gothic seems popular, also in the fashion image, but that, according to Santi has more to do with behind a trend (or band: Within Temptation). "The scene in which we find ourselves in any case, it is very modest. The fine of this system is that you can operate for a long time without anonymous to be criticized by people who do not understand. What I regret is that the link is not quickly with culture, the references to the intellectual and philosophical aspects. 
Soon people think, "what a weird '. I wear a lot of black and use Nail Polish. But I don't think that in the scene. " In neighbouring countries Germany and Belgium are many more bands and parties in the field, as well as of Northern Europe does Sweden according to Santi well with it. Also the Mediterranean countries and ' the whole American continent ' want to have in mind. What is it sober Dutch? Santi: "I think that the Netherlands has missed a intermediate period of Egypt. People are sceptical about this music because they still reminds us of the 1980s. Since then, the hit here in the underground. I think the music unrest and fear may want Dutch people are not. They want to happen to sober, but are not. Perhaps it is precisely this music so much that they bring their emotions are no longer able to control it (laughs). But unfortunately, Yes. 
You should now see that Dutch bands away to Germany. I seriously think that culture decay. " Recording contract The leading parties in our country will take place in Nijmegen (Insula Avalonia), Utrecht (Cyberia), landgraaf and Rotterdam. ("San Francisco, as its capital, death should be ashamed. There is nothing more. ") Back to SigNos, which is now two years and all of a sudden their hobby music at Club evenings run saw. Santi, "then you are going to the whole a lot more seriously. 
After you think about your numbers, pulls out other musicians in ensures better afgemixt. There are people working on the Visual area. We already have contracts offered plates. However, we're going to first deliver, once again, this CD and the responses to wait and see. 
We have constructive criticism (laughs). Incidentally, I have in Buenos Aires a number of songs with a guitarist and that are even on the rural radio! " 

Malochia, Cenobita, Re-Work, Inscape SigNos, DJ 's, CO2, X-X-x and Ornny light or Darkness 7 June 013 Tilburg Start 20: 30 Gail of God, NG-Pro, DJ's CO2 and eLEl Zone 2W2 14 June W2 Den Bosch Start 21: 00  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SIGNOS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.