There are multiple groups using this name:

1.A devoted follower of techno-influenced drum & bass, Silent Witness adds a new edge & attitude, combining elements of the deep & uplifting within his tear-out dance floor productions.

First surfacing as Brainiac on breakbeat label Stratosphere Recordings, his powerful sound soon caught the attentions of many including The Plump DJs who included 'Neuro' (2001), his acid-tinged debut on their Urban Underground (INCredible) mix and Sony who licensed the track for the soundtrack to the video game Wipeout Fusion (Playstation 2). The second Brainiac single, 'Bass Jump' / 'Bionic' (2002) was greeted with similar acclaim and it became clear a serious talent was emerging.

Infamous producer and No U-Turn Records boss, Nico picked up on Brainiac and unearthed a budding drum & bass producer. He quickly signed 'Contact' in 2002 and released two more singles, 'Higher Rates' and 'Invasion' (both collaborations with studio partner Break) in quick succession.

Over the next three years, releases on Metalheadz, Commercial Suicide, Quarantine, Violence, DSCi4, Critical, Obscene and DNAudio; the label he established with co-conspirator Squire in 2003, alongside collaborations with the likes of Break, Ercola, Klute, Hive, Gridlok & D-Bridge have established Silent Witness as a musical tour de force. DJ bookings have taken him around the USA, Europe and the Middle East and include regular appearances at top UK nights including Metalheadz, Therapy Sessions, Traffic and Carbon.

Never one to stick to a genre, Silent Witness has recently branched out into the house scene joining forces with Dropkick to establish the M3 Project. Their debut 'A Better Man' EP is due for a summer release on Silicone Soul's Darkroom Dubs and has received airplay from BBC Radio 1's Annie Nightingale & Fergie amongst others.

2.Silent Witness from USA, they play Melodic Rock.

Discography:
Silent Witness (1997)
Thrills (1998)

Lineup:
Robert Mason (vocals)
John Bushnell (guitar)
Hal B. Selzer (bass)
Lance Hyland Stark (drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silent+Witness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.