Silent Fall was created in May 2005 out of the passion for music of three band members: Guillaume Tertis (keyboards), Cyrille Hejl (guitar) and Adrien Eyraud (lead vocals).

With a few original compositions already at hand, the band started giving one performance after the other under the name of Winterland, with the most noteworthy being a slot at Fallenfest, a Parisian musical contest bringing over 500 bands together, and allowing many dates at prestigious venues such as "Le Trabendo" and "La Cigale". The band came sixth. Furthermore, the group has supported two Danish bands during their European tours, Mercenary and Mnemic, as well as several concerts outside of Paris.

Having recorded four songs at Wildpath Studios, the group took a short break to participate at Raismesfest 2008 alongside renowned bands such as Gamma Ray, Saxon and Korpiklaani.

The decision to change the band's name to Silent Fall came in early 2009 as it was discovered that another band performed under the same name. Silent Fall's first full length album, 'Otherwise' was recorded in May 2009 and the band was soon after signed by Pitch Black Records. 'Otherwise' was released the following February while more live shows were being arranged. Two guest musicians, Marjolaine Bernard (Wildpath) and Stephan Forté (Adagio), appear on the album.

After a year far away from the stages, due to the other activities of the band's members, Silent Fall is back with a line-up change and is ready to spread its music.

Inspired in particular by bands like Angra, Sonata Arctica, Masterplan, Avantasia, Kamelot and Edguy, the music of SILENT FALL is a blend of melodic power and symphonic metal, while at the same time creating a unique character reflecting the musical diversity each band member. 

Their official homepage is www.silentfall.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silent+Fall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.