There are loads of bands with this name

1) Silent began at the end of 2003 in Belgium. Mathieu Burton (guitar) and Pierre Abras (drums) threw themselves into the project with their primary driving force being their shared passion for music. The duo was soon joined by Son Tran-Trang (bass guitar) and Frederic Hyat (guitar) who will take the place of the singer afterward.

After a long period in the shadows, during which they composed and refined their songs, a self-produced EP came to light in September 2005. At the same time, Silent integrated the Progress Booking agency (Brussels) and, from the beginning, with their first performances, proved their professionalism with an incredible energy.

The concerts continued one after the other and Silent made itself known throughout Belgium and even abroad as they performed in Suisse at L’Usine (Geneva). They have performed at such renowned venues as L’Ancienne Belgique in Brussels, opening for AqME and festivals like the Durbuy Rock Festival’s 10th anniversary where Silent shared the stage with, among others, Gojira, AqME, Mypollux, Mass Hysteria, and Dagoba.

During the course of these years the band has witnessed also its first write-ups in the press and its premiers on radio stations such as Pure FM, a national radio, after the Puredemo contest that they won in April 2006.

In September 2006, Son, the bassist, left the band and was replaced by Julien Pire.

Stronger still with their new bassist, Silent go back on stages with opening sets for Mypollux at the Botanique (Brussels) and Stereotypical Working Class in the Magasin 4 (Brussels), as well as playing in festivals such “La Fiesta Du Rock” (with Front 242, Superlux, etc.). And above all, they made their first headlinings.

Desiring to bring their act to greater heights, and in response to the demand of a growing public, Silent entered the studio in July 2007 to record their first album with the help of their sound engineer Johan Milet who has followed the band since its debut.

After many months of waiting and hard work, the surprising “Five a.m.” is now available in a limited edition included bonus cd until the official release in October 2008.

It is difficult to categorize this multi-faceted album. With its oppressive ambiance, sometimes atmospheric, sometimes brutal, the album reflects the image of the band, a real paradox, evolving in a somber universe but fulfilled with deep emotions. It awaits your discovery !

Members:
Frederic Hyat - vocals/guitars
Mathieu Burton - guitars/backing vocals
Pierre Abras - drums
Julien Pire - bass/keyboards

2) Silent were a Brazilian arena rock band from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Silent were formed in 1991 by Gustavo Andriewiski (guitar and lead vocals), Alexandre França (guitar), Marcos Ferraz (bass) and L.A. Tilly (drums). This line up recorded the single "Sonhar (Pra Sempre)" which was released as part of a soundtrack for TV Globo's soap opera "O Amor Está No Ar".

In 1993, Marcos quit the band and Federico Martin joined the band as the new bass player and second lead singer. This line up would be together until 1994 when Alexandre would also quit the band.

In 1995, the remaining trio recorded a small demo and unsuccessfully tried to find a replacement for Alexandre.

In the end of 1996, Alexandre would come back to the band for recording of the band's first (and only one until today) album. Also joined the band this time was keyboard player Leandro Baliza. The self-financing album was called "The Bright Side" and included two singles that were included and two different soap operas soundtracks. "I Found Faith" was included in the "Vira-lata" soundtrack and "Bitter Tear" was included in "O Amor Está No Ar" soundtrack. After the recordings the band called it quits.

In 2001, drummer Tilly released the album and it became a surprising small hit in the AOR community, gaining good reviews from specialty mags. They were awarded 83 of 100 by Japan's Burrn! magazine and was cited and one the bests albums of the genre by some reviewers that year.

In 2002 the band reunited (minus the keyboard player) for a few promoting shows for the album release. After that, Gustavo moved away to Miami and the band was on a forced break. That same year, bass player and second lead singer Federico left the band.

After trying to reformed the band with a new lead singer (the most well-known candidate was Gus Monsanto, now lead singer for French progressive/symphonic metal act, Adagio), Alexandre and Tilly called it quits officially in 2005.

Members

    Vocals, guitar: Gustavo Andriewiski
    Guitar: Alexandre França 1969-2011
    Bass, vocals: Federico Martin
    Drums: L.A. Tilly

Former members

    Bass: Marcos Ferraz
    Keyboards: Leandro Baliza


3) Alternative melodic rock/metal band from Dubrovnik, Croatia. They started in early 2006. Old friends Davor, Sanin and Miro had the idea to start playing some rock music. In the beginning, they played some covers of ex-yu bands (Azra, Bijelo Dugme, Divlje Jagode). Later, Magda (violin) and Tibi (lead guitar) joined the band and they got their own sound, and started to do their own stuff. Few songs and few live concerts were made so far. They are preparing to do some shows in summer & winter holidays, as well as record their first demo.


current members:

Davor Čupić - rhythm guitar, main vocal
Tibor Karamehmedović - lead guitar, back vocal
Sanin Karamehmedović - bass guitar
Magda Skaramuca - violin
Miro Ćuzulan - drums, back vocal 

4) Silent is Jason Brian Merrill, a video game music remixer from the OverClocked ReMix community.

5)Created in Baja California, Silent’s music takes on various aural approaches. Interludes bring forth hypnotic sounds that have an almost cinematic quality, all heartbeat and boots on cement rhythms with sunsets on a desert landscape distortion. Other tracks take on a more fast-paced approach, sometimes even crossing barriers into catchy, surf-like guitar riffs. While Andrea Varela’s drumming, Rodo Ibarra’s (Maniqui Lazer) bass, and Alejandro Lara’s guitar lines do vary quite a bit depending on the track, Jung Sing’s (Maniqui Lazer, All Leather) vocals are a common thread throughout, consistently emitting honeyed grief: soothing but woeful, desperate and yet in no rush, perhaps calling to mind something in the spirit of a Mexicali-reincarnated Nick Cave.

Their newest LP "A Century of Abuse" is out in THREE ONE G Records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.