Silent Memorial is a Swiss progressive rock/metal band featuring Mike Andersson (Cloudscape) on vocals. 

Back in the early 90's in Switzerland, Christoph Baertschi (guitars) and a few friends formed a cover band called Squadron 41. Later on Squadron 41 parted ways with their leadsinger and tried to find new musical challenges within the prog metal era by starting to compose own music. In 1996 the line up was completed with Christian Haenggi (keyboards). After producing a demotape in the mid-nineties, the combo started to search for a suitable singer and a proper recordlabel. The swedish talented singer Thomas Vikstrom joined Silent Memorial and they signed a contract with EMI. “Squadron 41” changed their bandname to...SILENT MEMORIAL. 1997 Silent Memorial entered the recording studio in 1997 and recorded their debut entitled “Cosmic Handball”. “Cosmic Handball” was released in 1998 through EMI but, unfortunally only in Asia. The “Cosmic Handball” line up was; Thomas Vikstrom (Lead Vocals), Chris Haenggi (Keyboards), Christoph Baertschi (Guitars), Michael Halbach (Bass) and Jurg Friedli (Drums). After releasing Cosmic Handball Silent Memorial parted ways with Michael (Bass) and Jurg (Drums). 

After the millennium change ´Chris and Christoph continued to compose new songs in order to maintain their life passion for Silent Memorial so, new demos were recorded and in mid 2005 they started a new search for a good singer to replace Thomas Vikstrom. After contacting various singers the dice eventually fell on upcoming leadsinger Mike Andersson from the Swedish melodic metallers Cloudscape. Mike listened to the new songs by Silent Memorial and eventually joined Silent memorial as the brand new leadsinger by the fact that he loved the songs they presented to him. In early 2006 Mike entered the Roastinghouse studio in Malmoe (Sweden) in order to record all vocals for the second Silent Memorial album. Pontus Lindmark at Roastinghouse studios started to mix the album in late 2006 and the album was finished in early 2007. Silent Memorial has finally established themselves as a genuine band and will start to search for a proper recordlabel to release their second album in 2007... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silent+Memorial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.