There are multiple artists with this name. Note: Silent Hill is also the name of a famous horror videogame series from Konami, the music was composed by Akira Yamaoka, so please change your tags.

1) Silent Hill is a trance act from Israel founded by Eli Pinto (guitar, keyboards and bass) and Lior Kopeikin (keyboards and vocals).  In 2002 they released their first EP under The name 'Silence Hill' on DJ Jorg's German label - Shiva Space Technology. After that the Project name was changed to 'Silent Hill' and new tracks were released on labels such as YoYo/BNE, Com.pact, Spliff music… up to their recent hit, '24 Covers', which was their first release on HOMmega (ISRAliens 5).
Elected 2nd place as 'Best New Producer of 2005' by the Isratrance forum, Silent Hill's style is a fusion of Psychedelic Rock and rance combined with Clubby elements, including stylish programming of filtered vocals in some of their works.
Silent Hill brings the new age of quality in Israeli Full-On-Trance and reflects the overwhelming growth in popularity for Israeli electronic music. Their stand-out production skills along with musical direction has already started the buzz with inquiries for live shows flowing from Switzerland, UK, Japan, Mexico, Brazil and Turkey, to name but a few of the countries Silent Hill will visit in 2008.
“Find Me” EP came out in December 2007 and is only an appetizer, a 5 tracks EP that showcases Silent Hill’s diverse talents, “Groove In Surround”, the opening track invites Ruli “K.Y.D” Aizen, younger brother of Erez Aizen (Infected Mushroom), to share his MC vocals, to explore Electro-Hop dimensions and of course massive grooveness. The 2nd track “Kicking My Brain”, is a collaboration with the Trance Princess – Dali (Dalit Eizner), which spices the Silent Hill’s superb sound quality with her lethal vocal skills. “Find Me”, the 4th Track and the title of this extraordinary EP, brings some spanish influences ala Santana.
Trying not to be framed in any specific genre Sillent Hill practice some Progressive manouvers in “Father Connection”.
http://www.myspace.com/silenthill2001

2) Silent Hill is an Italian doom metal formed in 2003.
http://www.myspace.com/silenthillitaly

3) Silent Hill is a Polish rock band formed in April 2006 in Bialystok, Poland. It was founded by Jacek (vocals), Rafal (guitar) and Michał (drums). After some months Maciek (bass) and Piotrek (guitar) joined the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silent+Hill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.