Silencio is the name of three musical artists.

1) Silencio is a music project based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Since their spontaneous arrival in December of 2011, Silencio has developed and maintained an uber buzz-worthy status offering recognition across the world. The band is best known for its meticulously crafted live performances of David Lynch’s film soundtracks, but has moved forward by recording two albums worth of prolific & stylized soundtrack-inspired original material. 

2) The second namesake is for a music project based in France, dedicated to ambient and electro-acoustic music, exploring themes such as absence, memory, distance and sleep. More info can be found on www.silenciomusic.com

3) The third namesake is for a progressive rock band from Columbus, Ohio, known for creating music of intricate complexity and difficulty.

The band was formed in 2001 by guitarist and principle songwriter Jamie Hafler with drummer Nathan Ward and keyboardist Anna Wuerth. Silencio's first show was in October 2001 at Bernie's Distillery in Columbus opening for the avant rock group Orthrelm.

Soon thereafter fourth band member Tony Belleau joined the band on bass, electronics, as well as lending his talents in the visual arts.

After independently releasing a self titled five song EP in 2002, garnering a local following opening for national acts Trans Am, Dalak, The Unicorns, and Dead Meadow, and performances at local art venues The Wexner Center For The Arts and BLD, a full length album entitled "Dead Kings" was released on The Mountain Collective For Independent Artists (MTNCIA) label in 2004. MTNCIA folded in 2006 with MTNCIA's catalog obsorbed by Handstand Records.

Following the exodus of two band members from their home town the band has been on hiatus since October 2006. Silencio has no present plans to record or to tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silencio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.