Silent Moon is a power melodic metal band from Brazil similar to Angra, Gammaray, Stratovarius, Sonata Arctica and others. 

Silent Moon was founded in 2002 by Roberto Torao (Guitars) and Rodolfo "Buda" Matsumoto (Keyboards) from Recife, Brazil. The first song composed was "Silent Moon" which became the name of the band. The music was very influenced by progressive power metal bands like Stratovarius, Helloween, Angra, Shaman, Sonata Arctica, Iron Maiden and Dream Theater. After several line-up changes, Silent Moon was Daniel Pinho (Vocals), Roberto Torao (Guitars), Marcus Vinicius (Guitars), Artur Filipe (Bass), Rodolfo Matsumoto (Keyboards), and Walman Filho (Drums), and with this line-up they played their first concert in october 2002 as a opening act of Shaman (band with former Angra members Andre matos, Ricardo Confessori, and Luis Mariutti) in front of 2.000 people. After this show, they got attention of a local independent label Blackout discos which help to released in December 2003 a EP-Demo "Distant Horizons" with 5 songs. 

The band toured with Angra, Dr. Sin, Holy Sagga, and many others, and after several months the EP-Demo was sold-out selling all 1.000 printed copies. Silent Moon had to change the line-up again, Daniel Pinho (Vocals) left to dedicate exclusively in his own band Terra Prima, and Daniel Moura becomes the new vocalist of Silent Moon. Guilherme Amorim (Drums) and Pedro Diniz (Bass) were also the new members. Rodolfo Matsumoto became very ill, and Gustavo Albuquerque (Keyboards) temporally replaced him, but after Rodolfo Matsumoto recovered from his health problems, Silent Moon decides to have 2 Keyboards in the band. 

In April 2005, Silent Moon played on the largest music festival of Brazil, Abril Pro Rock in front of 5000 people, playing in the same night with Sepultura, Shaman, and others. The concert was a huge success and leaded to record their first official album "Clandestine" in 2006 featuring Kiko Loureiro (Angra´s Guitarrist) in 2 songs "Miracle" and "King of Illusions". Lazaro Cabral recorded the bass guitar, since Pedro Diniz left the band due musical differences. After releasing their debut album "Clandestine", Gabriel Carvalho replaces Lazaro Cabral on bass, and Rodolfo Matsumoto (keyboards) left the band. 

In 2007, Silent Moon played some concerts with Almah (band featuring Angra members Edu Falaschi, Aquiles Priester and Felipe Andreoli) and Hangar (Angra Drummer Aquiles Priester's band). The band made several concerts, and started to producing their second album, but unfortunately parted ways in September 2009, since there was too much musical conflicts and the founder of this band left its country for personal reasons.

In late 2010, The band probably will return... Just keep in touch with us!

Last Line-up:
Daniel Moura - Vocais
Roberto Torao - Guitarras
Marcus Vinicius - Guitarras
Magno Lima - Baixo
Gustavo Albuquerque - Teclados
Guilherme Amorim - Bateria

Former Members:
Rodolfo "Buda" Matsumoto (Teclados)
Vinicius Frota (Vocais)
Hugo (Vocais)
Daniel Pinho (Vocais)
Arthur (Baixo)
Lázaro Cabral (Baixo)
Pedro Diniz (Baixo)
Gabriel Carvalho (Baixo)
Walman Filho (Bateria)


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silent+Moon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.