There's more than 1 band called Silk. For the japanese one that was not formed by 大森絹子(Kinuko Oomori), please refer to ＳｉＬＫ.

Silk is a five-man R&B group best known for their 1993 #1 single "Freak Me" from their debut album Lose Control. They had another hit single from the Lose Control album "Girl U For Me" which helped the album reach double platinum status. They later had success with hits like "Meeting In My Bedroom" and "Tonight."

The group is made up of Tim Cameron, Jim Gates, Gary Glenn, Gary Jenkins and John Rasboro and they were found by popular music artist Keith Sweat.

They continued the popularity of the various New Jack Swing groups that emerged in the late 80's and 90's.

Jenkins (known to fans as Lil G) made his stage debut in 2002 as AJ in the Tyler Perry play "Madea's Family Reunion". In 2002, Elektra Records trimmed its artist roster and dropped Silk and Sweat from the label.

Read More At http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silk_%28group%29

3) The '90s R&B trio Silk was one of the many groups to arrive from that genre in the wake of classic Motown and during the heyday of their native Philadelphia scene. The group was never as famous as most of their contemporaries, but they still managed to release two albums before they disbanded in the late '90s, 1997's Smooth as Silk and 1997's Silk.
Not to be confused with 90's R'n'B Silk.

4) The japanese rock singer 大森絹子(Kinuko Oomori) best known for Bubblegum Crisis formed the band SILK in 1991.  They released their first , self-titled mini-album in January 1991. The ending song from Buublegum Crisis 8 “Chase the Dream” appeared on the CD. They released a single in April of that year, which contained the opening song for the children’s anime series, [Zettai Muteki Raijin-Oh ]. The song was featured on SILK’s 2nd mini-album “Voice”, released soon after that. They performed a series of concerts at the Egoman Club in Shibuya in May and Novmember of 1991,and then released a 3rd mini-album “Face”,in December 1991. A song from this CD , “My Precious Trick Star”,was used as the ending theme song for the animated film “Fushigi no Umi no Nadia”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Silk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.