There are more than one act which goes by the name of Sin City 
1. A band from Germany
2. A band from Melbourne Australia.

1. SIN CITY, the name stands since 15 years for high voltage AC/DC styled rock 'n' roll in germany. Like there idols from down under, the five guys from Zweibrücken (germany) know how to rock a small club or every big event! Since over 350 gigs in the last years the boys know what SIN CITY stands for:

HIGH VOLTAGE LIVE ROCK SHOW
The big point in SIN CITY is singer Porty Portner, with his great rock voice. "You hear him sing and you know his voice is unique!" is only one thing we heard about all the years.
So the guys decide to form a band in best AC/DC styled music, with lots of hard rock 'n' rolled influences like AC/DC, Krokus, Rose Tattoo, Rhinobucket and so on.

But not only the singer is the band: both guitar players (Dschuergen J. Gegner and Heiko "the rocker" Haag ) are long year riff rocked guitar fans and found out the secret of the great AC/DC guitar sound.

Rhythm section (Patrik Apel -bass guitar and Lars M. Lunova - drums) beats like a heart on the run and puts the band forward!

THE GUYS ARE ROCK N ROLL-CRAZY!
In 1996 SIN CITY meet there idols AC/DC on there "Ballbreaker" CD release party in hamburg / germany to talk about music, sounds and many more! Since this time SIN CITY are guests on many meetings with the band.

That's not enough. SIN CITY recorded two own cd's "And there was rock" ('96) and "Hellectric" from march 2003, with there ideas of rock 'n' roll filled hard rock music.

In September 2007 there third work "THIS AIN'T HEAVEN - WELCOME TO HELL" will hit the planet...

... it's 100 % R 'n' R guaranteed!!! 

2. Melbourne Punk Grunge Power pop type band.
From their myspace : 
"The new self-titled EP is here and the record 'must have left a smouldering crater where Perth once stood such is the intensity of their songs' (Beat Magazine).

With their debut album 'Hungry For Love', Sin City laid a foundation that saw them hailed as 'the new blood we need' (The Age) and 'one of the most exciting bands in years' (Faster & Louder). 12 tracks of blistering rock, the album was recorded at Sing Sing studios with ARIA winning producer Tony Cohen and released on boutique Melbourne label High Voltage Records. Having previously released the succesful EP 'Sweet Lies' and the singles 'Rest In Pieces, 'Love Bite' and 'Summer Love Song', the band sold 5000 units in pure DIY spirit. Now with 1000 copies sold of their debut album, Sin City are out of contract and those foundations are an un-stoppable juggernaut in the form of the self-titled EP, recorded with acclaimed Brisbane producer Stuart Stuart.

After having been hand picked to support such luminaries as The Misfits, UK Subs, Guitar Wolf, DOA, Guttermouth, Cosmic Psychos and Anti Nowhere League, you just know this record is going to be the real deal. Sin City have also shared the stage with Jet, Sham 69, The Queers, Strung Out, Gyroscope and many more as well as playing numerous festivals including the Big Day Out.

From raucous beginnings on the streets of Perth as WA legends 'Local Pricks', the band are now a fully fledged touring machine. Since relocating to Melbourne in April, 2004 Sin City have amassed a mammoth 500 shows and toured the country non-stop. This commitment to their music drips from the new recording like the sweat from their dynamite live shows. An unrellenting onslaught of passionate vocals, raw energy and hook laden songs, the only thing more intense than Sin City's music is their drive and now it's all been captured on disc. " <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sin+City">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.