Sin Of Kain was formed in 2002 in Budapest, Hungary with the help of Adrienn (chello), Csaba Rom (keyboard), Antal Turi (guitar) and Krisztián Gyémant (singer). These four persons made their debut album Howling Sins of Alighting Whim in March 2002. The instruments were recorded in a home studio, the songs in the SoundCheck studio in Óbuda. This material was said to be outstanding by many magazines and webzines and the band got so many positive feedback that it had an advantageous effect on their work. Meanwhile, Tamás Fider helped the band with bass guitar. Following this, they participated in many concerts, as a result of which Larzz joined the band as a drummer in May 2002. His arrival changed the profile of the band considerably. The drum machine at the concerts changed to real drums that advanced the performances a lot and gave more dynamism to the music that hadn't been week before either. In December 2002 Gergő Havasi rhythm guitarist joined the band, and he was followed Imre Hurtik bass guitarist in February 2003 making the band a whole. Fests and concerts followed, then a tour from February till April 2003 with Meothys, Baskíria, Hetumoger (Travelling Hell tour). Since then the form is the same, thanks to which the band went to studio in November 2003 to make their second material, a new EP. The songs were recorded in Elysion studio with the help of Mihály Szabó sound engineer. The cover was designed by the well-known Gyula Havancsák, who has already worked with Annihilator, Nightingale, Destruction, etc. This EP was born in 2004 and was welcomed in such a unbelievable way that nobody had expected. The recording was considered to be absolutely marketable and valuable not only in land, but abroad as well. However, a sad thing happened when bassist Imre Hurtik left the band. His place was taken over by Gyula Havancsák, who had previously designed the cover of Sin of Kain's EP. In January of 2006 Larzz has been replaced by drummer Dávid Juhász. He will play drums on the arriving Sin Of Kain album. They will work again with Mihály Szabó from Elysion Studio. First day in the studio: 19th of February. This is the status at the moment. Continuous search for a publisher and showing up, what their lives are devoted to; hopefully it will frucity.

Discography:
2002 Howling Sins of Alighting Whim
2004 ...Of Disharmony
2006 The End

www.sinofkain.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sin+of+Kain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.