"Sin of Angels (The best Doom in New England)."




"Rhode Island doom metal act SIN OF ANGELS has been rejoined by guitarist Todd Laskowski (WARHORSE, AS HEAVEN TURNS TO ASH). Todd was part of the group's original lineup, along with drummer Ray McCaffrey, and was instrumental in crafting the band's current sound. Commented McCaffrey: "Todd left the band two years ago to take some time off and now has returned. We have been jamming together for the past month relearning some of the older tunes we had written together and are now learning the bands newer material. It sounds heavy as hell with two guitars again. Todd's first show back with us will be at Club Hell on November 11 in our home town of Providence. It should not be missed! If you thought it sounded thick before, just wait!" Conceived in early 2003 by Ray McCaffrey, Josh Maher and Todd Laskowski, SIN OF ANGELS recorded and self-released a two-song demo, "The Dark Sky Sessions", which contained early versions of "At Journey's End" and "Dark Sky Prophecy" (later re-recorded and released on the 2005 full-length "From the Ashes"). SIN OF ANGELS will release its second full-length CD, "In the Grip of Despair", this winter via Obscenity Cult Records." (Blabbermouth.net).




"Combining elements of doom, sludge and death metal, Sin of Angels has built a reputation around their pummeling live shows. They have shared the stage with such honorable acts as Unearthly Trance, Grief, Exhumed, the Hidden Hand, Deadbird and SUNN0))), as well as a US tour with Vital Remains and Incantation. Sin of Angels has finished tracking and mixing for their newest full-length album "In The Grip Of Despair", although no release date has been set. The new material is more crushing than ever. With more riff-laden oozing despair, hate and drug-induced depression that their fans have come to expect. Live, the band, with new bassist Nick Pelle, brings a whole new sonic element. Sin of Angels is one of heaviest acts to rise from the New England area...." (The End Rccords forum). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sin+Of+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.