Sin Fang Bous was an early stage name of Sindri Már Sigfússon, an Icelandic musician and member of the band Seabear. He now records as Sin Fang)

Pop music with a bow, a present from Reykjavik and from Sindri Mar Sigfusson. A present that he gave to us and especially to himself. A surprise album, a search game in terms of pop music.

At the beginning there was an atmosphere of breaking up. Whereas on the one hand face and body of his band Seabear (whose debut was released on Morr Music in August 2007) gained their outlines more clearly, there remained a deliberately left open game with the sounds on the other hand. The name for this game was soon found: Sin Fang Bous.

Sindri Mar Sigfusson took his time. And he let time blow through the tracks. Gravitation processes, drifts, accumulations. What began as a miniature – a voice, a guitar – changed its textures and re-coloured its leaves. “Pocket Symphonies” one is inclined to say with Brian Wilson. Reduced to the max and equally concentrated up to its essence. Songs, sounds and samples are crystal clear and yet able to raise a storm.

Like in “Advent in Ives garden”, a greenhouse in paradise, an “always more” of melody miniatures and sound pieces. Or, as the choirs in “Catch the light”, it is his own voice that Sindri Mar Sigfusson expects of and even dares to do most of all. „I wanted to try to do stuff with my voice I hadn’t done before so there's some singing above my range there and singing through lots of effect stuff.“

Still there is this direct, intuitive sound - a reliance in sounds that also characterises Seabear’s music. Embraces in pop, distinctive naivety. And yet Sin Fang Bous knows about the process-relatedness of pop music's production. Though, this debut has become a producer’s album, too. Another talent of Sindri Mar Sigfusson. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sin+Fang+Bous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.