There are two acts using the title 'Sinah'. In order of creation:

1. Sinah was a black metal band from the Ukraine, created in 2001. Lyrical themes include Misanthropy, Hate and Anti-Christianity. The band have released two demos, one EP, the И не устрашится мой разум compilation and a split before splitting up in 2011.

2. SINAH is a Singer/Producer originally from Berlin, currently living in London. Electronic/Downtempo/Dark Pop

Release: EP "NOBODY KNOWS - SINAH" (2012)

It was this past June that SINAH released her debut four-track EP, Nobody Knows SINAH. And while it’s true that nobody knew her before, we expect things to change fast thanks to the beautiful EP" 
- Listen Before You Buy

"SINAH (that’s pronounced Xena, as in warrior princess) is a London-by-way-of-Berlin songstress whose mysterious, frayed electronica’s been compared to Bonobo and Nicolas Jaar. In “Nobody Knows,” SINAH’s girlie, ghostly voice is hypnotising, riding trembling piano chords and drippy beats, static swipes and a mechanical heartbeat.
Pretty, weird, pretty weird stuff...." - RCRD LBL

Following up the Release of her debut EP, SINAH has drawn attention to her music through a Remix of "Breezeblocks" by Alt-J and features on blogs including Hugo Boss, PouleD'or and the fashion label Oki-Ni's Mix Series. During the past year SINAH has formed a Live Show around her music and with visuals adding to her performance, the producer rises from her studio to stage.

Sinah belongs to that group of remarkable young musicians who are pushing electronic music forward, drawing on a love of hip hop and blending it with the dance music to create something altogether new. - Oki Ni

Her sound’s a sort of futuristic deep house that could be lumped in with her contemporaries doing the same sort of think (i.e. Grimes), but SINAH is much less of a gimmick than artists to whom critics may be tempted to compare her. - Planet Notion

Releasing her EP via her own label ZNA records, SINAH is someone to be talking about. - 1883 Magazine Blog <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.