There are four artists sharing the name Sindrome. 
1: A thrash metal band from Chicago. 
2: An electronic pop noire from France.
3: An ambient electronic act from Peru.
4: A rock/metal band featuring Daniel Cardoso from Portugal. 

1 : Sindrome was formed in 1986 with the original line up of Troy Dixler (vocals), Shaun Glass (bass), Chris Mittelbrun (guitar), and Tony Ochoa (drums).  In 1987 the band recorded their first release “Into the Halls of Extermination” at Tanglewood studios in the greater Chicago area.  Shortly after the release, Sindrome went on tour with Whiplash supporting their “Ticket to Mayhem” release as well as a second tour supporting Death on their “Scream Bloody Gore” tour.  

In late 1988, Chris Mittelbrun decided to leave Sindrome and it took a few years before he was replaced by Mick Vega and Rob Welsh.  In 1991, Sindrome went to Morrisound Studios in Tampa, Florida to record their second release “Vault of Inner Conscience”.   Upon completing the recording, Sindrome parted ways with Rob Welsh and replaced him with Ken Savich (formerly of Lääz Rockit). Ken relocated to Chicago to join Sindrome.  The band never wrote or recorded new material after Rob Welsh’s departure.

In 2016, Century Media records decided to release “Resurrection: The Complete collection” on vinyl, CD, as well as digital and included completely remastered versions of “Into the Halls of Extermination”, “Vault of Inner Conscience” along with an unreleased track called Brought to the End found as part of the “Into the Halls of Extermination” recording. Additionally, the release includes a live concerts recorded at the Iron Rail on January 21, 1988 in support of Death on the “Scream Bloody Gore” tour which included two unreleased songs   Surround the Prisoner and Psychic Warfare.  As part of the release new T-shirts were made available as well.

2: Sindrome is a one-man band from France, fronted by Alex Sindrome. It's minimalist electronic new wave with french cynical and ironic lyrics. Sindrome released several albums which are available on http://alexsindrome.bandcamp.com/

3: 

4: SinDRomE, i.e. Severe Damage on Reason and Equilibrium, is a project conceived by Daniel Cardoso (Anathema, SiriuS). He later collaborated with Kristoffer Rygg (Ulver, Borknagar) and SinDRomE became Head Control System. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sindrome">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.