Sinden is a unique producer/DJ who has revitalised the club scene with his own brand of forward thinking remixes and productions, clever mash ups and genre-melting DJ sets. Since Spring 2005, Sinden has remixed artists including  Lady Sovereign ,  Lethal Bizzle ,  Plan B ,  Basement Jaxx ,  Chromeo ,  Bugz In The Attic ,  Switch ,  Bonde Do Role ,  Mr Hudson & The Library  &  Mark Ronson  and collaborated on original material with  Solid Groove ,  Jesse Rose ,  Herve  &  Trevor Loveys .

As of September 2006, Sinden landed himself a spot on the groundbreaking radio station Kiss, in the UK. The show runs from Wednesday night / Thursday morning from 1-2 and is the first of its kind in the UK to host an eclectic selection of music that includes Funk Carioca, Baltimore Club, Kuduru, Juke House, Southern Hip Hop, Dancehall, House/Electro and much more.

Sinden is also a resident DJ at London’s finest club, Fabric. From January 2007, Sinden alongside Switch program and DJ in the clubs main room under the banner of 'Get Familiar', on a bi-monthly basis. Sinden prides himself on being a versatile DJ capable of rocking any party, bringing his varied music tastes to the club and spinning the latest in House and Electro, Baltimore Club, Baile Funk, Hip Hop, R n B/Soul, Dancehall, House/Electro, Mash Ups, Global Rhythms, Miami Bass, Grime etc.

Fabric aside, Sinden's other DJ highlights include spinning at Basement Jaxx's club night called Inside Out in Brixton, London. Sinden was the only resident alongside Jaxx's Felix and Simon. It ran for 1 and half years. He’s also taken his sound all over the world playing to audiences in Australia, Canada, United States, Israel and all over Europe. Sinden was recruited as MIA’s tour DJ for 2007 and has been playing shows with her in support of her sophomore album Kala.

Production wise, it started when he forged a good friendship and musical understanding with Dave "Switch" Taylor and was taken under his wing to learn the production game. They created a production team called A.Brucker & Sinden and began to create progressive hip-hop, dancehall beats and other unclassifiable riddims.

Dave Taylor & Sinden's own label, Counterfeet launched in March 2006, its ethos: to have an open mind towards club music releasing records that they believed in. The debut release featured collaborations with A.Brucker & Solid Groove. The second release featured an EP by Radioclit called Mature Macho Machine.

The latest project for Sinden is the completion of the Count of Monte Cristal and Sinden album, due for release early 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.