Once a man is taught to fish, he can eat for a lifetime. This quote, with its insight on learning how to prosper, was principle in the roots of Sinitus Tempo, who at an early age saw the intellectual fruit of underground hip-hop in his older brother. Now with 9 years of crafted production in his strongbox, the professed “King of Inflected Pitch” is taking antique sounds and sculpting them into jewels for future hits.

Announced as Nathan Peters on March 1st, 1989, the youth of this producer was cultivated by the sounds of Madlib, Oh No, MF Doom, DJ Premier, Barry White Just Blaze and Pete Rock. The adoration of his older brother’s skill of writing music pushed the much-younger Sinitus Tempo to match the words with a touch of sound. Under the technique of “looping and adding” which allowed him to sample a record and use it repetitiously with added drum effects, was the manner in which Tempo enhanced his style---until he heard production by 9th Wonder and Khrysis of the Justus League squad. Another gem was added to his toolbox of knowledge and from there, he set forth on a journey of mastering the art of reinventing classics. Through this understanding of manipulating the pitch of old tunes, an intrigued Sinitus Tempo developed a style of his own, building a more pronounced sound that have many awaiting his signet of ability to stamp their music.

Loyal, but tight-nit is the persona of Sinitus Tempo. Working alongside childhood friend and producer Doc Battle, Tempo also manages a green, yet dynamic company with Alex Kohler, making him both dually active in the business and artistic side of his production. His confidence is encouraged by a strong history of collaborations with artists such as Markyland (SRC/Universal), Add-2 ((9th wonder, the roots, lrg, MTV) and Substantial (Nujabes) as well as a long list of production work for acts from all over the world, ranging from names like Canadian MC EDGE (Djbooth.net kevin nottingham.com and more) to Jun Chikuma (Original Creator of the Bomberman Soundtrack).

The seeker of vintage vinyl keeps his future motives in front of him, making plans to collaborate with the likes of flying Lotus, Yukimi Nagano, Common, Bonobo, Koop, The XX, and many more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinitus+Tempo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.