"Friday night was started by Sinister Black and their truly unique sound. Something hard to label, but easy to enjoy is always welcome, so thank fuck for that. Equal parts punk and metal served up with a “fist in your face” delivery made Sinister Black well worth checking out. Its good to hear an independent, local three piece not trudging over the same tired musical grounds."
-ABORT MAGAZINE. 

Sinister Black was formed in late 2005 by Wayne Powell and Ron Pistell who were already working together previously in the now defunct Scarecrow Balcony. Taking on Remo J.G. they had formed a power trio aimed at raw metal influenced songs mixed with punk attitude and energy, yet with a heart of classic rock. Being seasoned musicians the band was determined to take a different approach than they had in the past and make sure that playing music remained enjoyable. There is no point in stressing or complaining that you are not getting signed or making it big, that will ruin all of the enjoyment. It should be a party, not a stress fest. The “could have been, would have been, should have been” attitude was out the window and is not permitted. They certainly would welcome a deal if it came along but Sinister Black is interested in being original and writing music for enjoyment. 

In 2006 Sinister Black released their debut album “Taste The Flies”. Recorded by Wayne Powell and Bryon Morrow’s recording company Brain Method Productions. The album was a one shot, marathon recording session done on unfamiliar rented gear over a 24-hour period. Sinister Black proceeded to have moderate popularity on the local Vancouver music scene, playing numerous gigs throughout the last 5 years, they have also been aired regularly on local T.V. shows, Friday Night Revolution and A New Rock Reality.



In 2009 "ON THE ATTACK"the second album was released!Sinister Black continued the mayhem!In May 2010, Remo J.G. sadly left the band due to personal reasons,however it didn't take long for Sinister to recruit a new soldier, Mr Gord Latham aka "GoRedZilla"who is fitting in very well and adding a powerful new element to the band.Sinister Black is now working on material for their third yet un-named release and will be back hitting the stage stronger than ever!Come to our shows and check out our albums.Support the Vancouver music scene and stay SINISTER!!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinister+Black">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.