Biography
Sinister Frost” band was formed in 2004 in Moscow by three formerschoolmates – Max “Upsetcross” (guitars), Alexander«Balor» (guitars)and Daniel (keybords).These three persons became a basis of the project for a long time.
Initially it was planned to entitle the band as “Wolves of hell”. The same title had the first demo which was written in 2004 in Russian language. However almost after the birth of the band it was decided to change its name to “Sinister Frost” and compose all lyrics in English.
The early material of “Sinister Frost” was close to melodic death sound with a lot of folk influences. Later this concept was reconsidered - the sound acquired the dark atmosphere, lyrics became full of philosophical landscapes with elements of horror. Most of the music was composed by Upsetcross. The other part was written by Daniel. Lyrics were under the responsibility of Balor.
In 2005 “Sinister Frost” line-up joined Arthem “MIoMI”. The band began rehearsals. In the same time the band continued to work on the new material. Unfortunately, MIoMI left the band very soon because of the personal matters and work in different music projects. So “Sinister Frost” returned to its initial form for a certain amount of time.
In 2006-2007 there were some further changes in the band line-up. During this period there was also recorded a 3-track instrumental untitled demo.
In 2008 Sinister Frost line-up was expanded by a bass-player Dmitriy “Botis” and a drummer Alexandra “Varaska”. “Sinister Frost” began to prepare for the live appearances.
The first gig was held on February 13, 2009 in the framework of black metal fest in Moscow in Club “XO”. After the next couple of gigs it was decided to record a debut full-length album. This process was started in 2010.
While first days records sessions Daniel decided to leave the band, but in spite of this fact he was still able to record the keyboards. However, in the final version of the album the amount of the keyboard segments was reduced considerably.
For the live appearances the rest of the Sinister Frost members decided to proceed without a new keyboard player. All keyboard passages were replaced by digital sounds.
The debut Sinister Frost album entitled “Cryotorment” was recorded on February 2012.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinister+frost">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.