San Jose metal act Sinister Sam was originated in 1987 by Silver Creek High School Alumni. Sam's 1st gig was a Silver Creek Ice Cream social. The name Sinister Sam was born the day John Sanders passed a note to Scot Miller in class, with a caricature of Scot boasting that his band Sinister Sam would one day headline Chuck E Cheese.

During High School, Sam went on to play many backyard parties, playing many songs by Van Halen, Metallica, Ratt, Dio, and Ozzy. Their original material at this time was average at best.

Being inspired by Bay Area Thrash Metal bands as well as Fishbone, Frank Zappa, Mr Bungle, and the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Sam got its shit together. Their music started combining elements of funk and jazz always surrounded by a metal core. Guitar solos were crazy, but not prominent in every song. Their first Demo was called Catfish Gumbo, recorded at Prairie Sun Studios in Cotati, California (studio of many a Shrapnel recording artist). Songs included were Work, Fresno, Lecter, Dr McCoy, and Nice to Meet You.

With the strength of Catfish Gumbo and their aspirations of a bad ass live show where the whole band moved around like Angus Young, Sam started playing the San Jose Club circuit, most notably San Jose's Cactus club, then The Stone, The Omni, One Step Beyond, Slims, The Catalyst, FX, Marsugi's, The I-Beam, The Caberet, and many others.

Sam's second Demo, Picklehead Willy (also recorded at Prairie Sun), featured a more mature and whacked out version of the band, with the songs Passion, Tan Man, Hebru, and Staring, plus many small splices of audio randomness.

Sam has supported the following National and International acts: Vio-Lence, Forbidden, Fungo Mungo, MIRV, Agent Orange, X, Psychefunkapus, among others.

Allegedly the late great John Reynolds aka Jay Shmoove has Sam shows on vid. Feel free to message that lazy bastit to get a move on.. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinister+Sam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.