There are several bands with name Sinner:

1) Sinner are a German heavy metal band formed in 1980 by vocalist and bassist Mat Sinner (Goddess Shiva, Primal Fear).  Their most recent album, 'Mask Of Sanity' was released in January of 2007.

Based in Baden-Württemberg, Sinner released their first album, Wild'N'Evil' in 1982.  This album, along with the next two ('Fast Decision' and 'Danger Zone') were raw affairs, having little in common with the melodic metal they would later become known for.  After many personnel changes, the band saw the addition of Accept's Herman Frank on guitars and the release of 'Touch Of Sin' in 1985.  Frank would leave before the next album, 1986's 'Comin' Out Fighting'.

1987 saw the release of 'Dangerous Charm', a much more melodic album than previous efforts, but shortly after this the band took a break and wouldn't be heard of again for five years.

In 1990 Mat Sinner released a solo album called 'Back To The Bullet' with a completely new band.  This same band reformed Sinner and released 'No More Alibis' in 1992, an album far heavier than anything Sinner had released before.  This renewed vigour coupled with songwriting that far exceeded the band's previous releases not only carried on but strengthened with 'Respect' in 1994 and 'Bottom Line' in 1995, the latter staying in the Japanese national charts for five weeks.  Since the reformation the band's reputation had improved immensely, touring as support for bands such as Mr. Big and Savatage as well as headlining their own German tour and releasing a live album.  Sinner were to reach even higher peaks though, releasing two hugely successful albums with 'Judgement Day' in 1997 and 'The Nature Of Evil' in 1998 before touring Europe as support for rock giants Deep Purple.  'The Nature Of Evil' was the band's most successful album to date, reaching 63 in the German album charts.

In 1998 Mat Sinner and Tom Naumann, who had been with Sinner since their reformation in 1992 formed Primal Fear with ex-Gamma Ray vocalist Ralf Scheepers.  Mat Sinner has been involved as a driving force in both Sinner and Primal Fear to this day.

In 2000 the band saw its first line-up change in five years as several members left, including guitarist Tom Naumann while ex-Helloween and Gamma Ray's Uli Kusch filled in on drums for 'The End Of Sanctuary'.  However, in 2003 the previous 1995-1999 line-up renewed itself and released 'There Will Be Execution' before going quiet again for four years.  In the past nine years the band had released six albums, each as good, if not better than the last, proving to be the band's most successful period.  This success would continue, as after releasing two more albums with Primal Fear and an album with his pre-Sinner band Goddess Shiva, Mat Sinner brought Sinner back with mainstays Tom Naumann (guitar) and Frank Rössler (keyboards) to release 'Mask Of Sanity' in 2007.  This album spawned two popular singles in 'Diary Of Evil' and 'Black' and included a faithful rendition of Thin Lizzy's 'Please Don't Go'.

2) Sinner was British NWOBHM band formed in 1978 which released one single Need Your Love / Beggar / God's in His Heaven (1979).

3) Polish death metal band.

4) Blackened hardcore from Niagara, Ontario, Canada. https://sinnerculture.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.