1) Sins of the Flesh is Thrash Metal/Crust band from California, USA. The band starts to play in 1985. In 1988 band releases their debut album called "Greed". After one year, in 1989 Sins of the Flesh records EP under Desperate Attempt Records label which contains 3 songs and it's called "Know Your Enemy". In 1989 they splited-up.

2) Not many acts spend 16 years thinking about how to follow up their first album: yet that is how long the world has been waiting for SOTF to deliver on the promise of 1990's seminal debut FIRST COMMUNION. Hailed by fans and contemporaries alike as the great hope of the UK goth scene in the early 90s, SOTF seemed content to fade away into legendary status...until now!

Now featuring a hybrid Japanese-British line-up, SOTF have returned with the breathtakingly eclectic new album THE DEATH OF THE FLESH, and a sound which is classic and contemporary in equal measures: a musical tribute to the best of the alternative scene itself, both past and present.

In February 2007 the band made its long-awaited debut in Germany and Holland, on the back of extensive publicity from the magazines Orkus and Astan. October/November 2007 found SOTF returning to its roots in the UK for a regional tour, including appearances with rising Canadian stars The Birthday Massacre in London and at the UK's premier scene-event Whitby Gothic Weekend...plus a trip east to headline the Radio Inferno festivals in Finland and Russia.

Invariably inviting comparison with such popular contemporary alternative acts as Nine Inch Nails, Marilyn Manson and Rob Zombie, SINS OF THE FLESH offer an altogether more accessible and poppy sound: combining rock riffs and electronics with strong melodic vocals, darkly poetic lyrics and a theatrical visual presence.
The 2007 album THE DEATH OF THE FLESH is a melancholic tour-de-force: a carefully-crafted homage to the UK positive-punk scene from which SOTF was spawned, incorporating subtle musical nods to such classic acts as Joy Division, Killing Joke, The Danse Society, Bauhaus and The Cure into a thoroughly contemporary production.

Following SOTF's recent live debut in Moscow and St.Petersburg, Russia's leading underground label Shadowplay has now licensed THE DEATH OF THE FLESH for a Russian release early in 2008. The next SINS OF THE FLESH studio album IN THE KINGDOM OF THE BLIND is scheduled for domestic release in Japan in the summer.
In the interim, SOTF fans can look forward to the multiple-remix maxi-single version of F**K #1 from THE DEATH OF THE FLESH, due in March 2008: followed by the maxi-single remix versions of GO TO HELL in April, featuring a selection of non-album 'B-sides'. Additional remixes of various tracks from THE DEATH OF THE FLESH continue to be released via the promotional CDs accompanying assorted European magazines, while an exclusive new track (HOW CAN I) SMILE? features on the new Deathwatch Asia compilation-CD DARKER WATERS.

With an ever-increasing groundswell of support and international interest in this unique Anglo-Japanese outfit, 2008 looks certain to be a very busy year indeed for Deathwatch Asia's best-known act... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sins+Of+The+Flesh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.