Sinter is the stagename for Novosibirsk’s Aleksandr Bibin who has been involved in music since 2003, when his geeky programming skills took him in a more creative decoration.

In fact it was after he heard a set by Artem Stepanov, known himself as “Math Geek,” that things started to take shape in consequential ways, with Sinter developing or deconstructing the local jungle and D&B traditions.  Over this transitional period, Poland’s Bogdan Raczynski, now based in Canada, nudged Bibin towards harder beats, specifically in the direction of drill ‘n’ bass.  The result was unlikely to be quiet.

Bibin himself says: “My tastes slowly changed and widened. As a result my creative work became more eclectic and experimental, too. Over time a few essential elements took shape: they were an increase in speed, tougher beats, and chopped-up samples… the kind of things that are best described as breakcore.”

Three years ago, Bibin started collaborating with the ongoing Siberian net-project, Hopneck, which - together with Heavy Mental - gave him a stable venue for developing those same breakcore and digital hardcore mixes. Within a year, though, he’d also developed a passion for warmer dubstep sounds: many of these steps and stages can be followed via Hopneck’s archives either as individual tracks, or as lengthier mixes.

They act as fine evidence of shifting fashions in Siberian dance music over the last few years. Friends and colleagues at Hopneck gave Sinter a better sense of musical rasion d’etre: “That’s how I branched into newer things, into dubstep and breakcore, with their bassier, darker, and noise-based sounds.”

His wandering enthusiasm for different styles over the last few years is, in his mind, one reason why his current output sounds so busy: “You’ll hear a synth-bass side by side with all kinds of samples, taken both from live instruments and percussion, too.  There’s distorted keyboards, different soundscapes that I’ve taped, and  - sometimes! - vocals.”  These and other dabblings make it hard to say what’ll come next: “I’d rather not try and predict anything. The way that musicians’ chop and change is something that defies all kinds of guesswork…! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sinter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.