Sintech was formed in May 2000 Neustadt, Germany under the name „Black Widow“ with the original line-up Sproc (Bass), Mike (Guitar), Johannes K. (Drums) and Christian L. (Keys) incorporating a roaring mixture of symphonic black metal and gothic metal. After experimenting with different sounds and singers, Sproc took over the vocals in Fall 2002 and the first recording „At the Gates of the Apocalyptic Myteria“ was produced and released in 2003.
Highly impressed by this piece of rather raw, rehearsal like recordings, Zasch joined the band in 2004 and took up his station at the rythm guitar.

Under this new line-up the band changed their name to Sintech and released a promo cd for their upcoming second album „Silence“, which finally was released in September 2005.
This album marked an important step in the band’s songwriting and sound development with an explosive mixture of black metal, death metal and industrial elements.

After the release of this album Johannes decided to leave the band due to personal and vocational interests and was quickly replaced by a new
drummer called Machine.

In 2006 the band released their third full length album „Sick Perverted Sins“, which sounded much darker and menacing than any other of the band’s foregoing releases. While still playing a mixture of death metal and black metal, the
industrial elements where particularly replaced by more ambient and symphonic soundscapes. The lyrical content also switched from fictional stories to much more personal and emotional lyrics.

Due to the growing popularity and increasing number of live shows, Sproc in the same year decided to fully concentrate on his vocals. With Horg a new member joined the band, taking over the job as a live bassist.
At the same time Christian decided to leave the band due to a lack of interest in the band’s music and wasn’t replaced by anyone until now, because Sproc completely took over the whole
programming and synth section.

In February 2010 Sintech signed their first deal with the german independent record label
Blacksmith Records

Since then the band is working on new, explosive material hoping to be released in near future and furthermore proudly celebrating its 10th anniversary in May 2010!

Current Line-Up:

sproc (vocals & programming)
mike (guitar)
zasch (guitar)
machine (drums)
horg (live bass) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sintech">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.