There are (or have been) at least twelve artists / acts called Siren.

1. Siren was a British blues rock / folk pop band that recorded from 1969 to 1971 fronted by Kevin Coyne on vocals and guitar, Dave Clague and Nick Cudworth as the other core members. They released two LPs on Dandelion, Siren (1969) and Strange Locomotion (1971).

2. Siren is an American progressive metal band from Tampa, FL, United States, formed in 1981. Having released a few singles and demos in 1984-196 they released the LPs No Place Like Home (1986) and Financial Suicide (1989). More recently a compilation of early work was released: Up From The Depths: Early Anthology & More (2018). Their vocalist, Doug Lee, has also appeared on three studio albums of the German progressive thrash metal band, Mekong Delta.

3. Siren is a melodic anarcho punk from California, United States. They released one album for Day After Records called Becoming Wheels. Their vocalist, Brian Zero, is also a columnist for Maximum R'n'R zine. 

4. Siren is a drum 'n bass team formed by Vicious Circle and Ruxspin from Universal Project. Their debut album, Broken Silence (2010) came out on their own Siren Records. Having spent a lot of time in the studio together, Vice and Ruxspin decided to use the Siren guise for their own brand of rolling future funk. Both artists in their own right have toured the world from the farthest reaches of Europe to the United States and Asia.

5. Siren is a Swedish rock / metal-band based in Tumba, a suburb of Stockholm. Their known recordings are two demos: Prelude in 2005 and Dark Thoughts in 2006.

6. Siren is a drone / psychedelic solo project from California, United States. Under the Siren pseudonym, Bethany of Pocahaunted takes a step back from the duo spirit jams to ride upon a beam of melancholy that is spiraling slowly into silence. Début release: Living Light.

7. Siren is a black metal band from Germany, closely associated with NSBM band, Absurd. The band was active between 1995 and 1998 as a one-man-project of Richard Neu. Three demos and an EP were released. Siren was the first band to play the track 'Colours of Autumn', now widely regarded as an Absurd song.

8. Siren was a hardcore punk band from the United States. They were female fronted and featured Issa from Good Clean Fun on bass. They released one 7-inch single called 'The Struggle Goes On' on Reflections Records.

9. Siren is Brandan Hale from Oregon and now settled in San Francisco, CA, United States. Siren is another new west coast find that has been making his distinctive mark on midtempo breakbeats and dubstep. With a background of metal influences and playing piano, saxaphone, drums in punk, ska and metal bands, Siren brings both melody and unforgiving edge to his productions. 

10.  Siren is an alternative rock band hailing from London, United Kingdom, consisting of Scarlet Billham on lead vocals and Sam Yung on the drums, who is known across YouTube for his Paramore piano covers. Sam Ayling, Alex Fowkes-Smith and Rob Jones make up the guitar section of the band. Already creating interest in the industry, Siren continue to create original and ear catchy melodies. 

11. Siren is an all-female hardcore punk band from the southern Dutch towns of Sittard and Maastricht, The Netherlands. They were active between 2005 and 2008, releasing a four-track mini album entitled, Siren.

12. Alexander Brandon (1974), known as Siren in the demo scene and tracker community) is an American musician, former member of Straylight Productions, who composed music mostly for games produced by Epic Games, or games based on Epic technology, including Unreal, Unreal Tournament, Deus Ex, Tyrian, Jazz Jackrabbit 2 and the cancelled game Jazz Jackrabbit 3D. Brandon also used the monikers Chromatic Dragon and Sandman, but was active as Siren in 1995 and 1996. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Siren">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.