There are currently two artists using the name Sixfinger:

1) Sixfinger was an indie/punk band from Springfield, Massachusetts. The band formed in late 1999 and endured several lineup changes ending with singer/guitarists Dan Sullivan and Jim LaTaille, drummer Kevin Duquette, and bassist Bemis Gibbs. Former members have gone on to play in Us Against the Archers, American Business Machines, Five Across the Eyes, The Modern Day Saint, Aeroplane 1929, and On the Surface.

Their first album, East Side All Stars Play Hard, was released in 2003 on Connecticut-based Rapscallion Records. 2005's Songs For The Escape Artist was recorded with National Lampoon producer Eric D at Wicked Smart Studios in South Mass. Although originally self-released, the band later partnered with Western Mass's Topshelf Records (which Duquette co-owns) in order to distribute the album. After its release, they became somewhat notorious for their excessively long and unusual song titles, which were usually inside jokes or pop culture references (examples include "Midnight Breakfast Team Rides Again [At 12 AM]," "The Angry Dragon Strikes Back," and "She Said Your Mom Wears Combat Boots"). The last "official" Sixfinger recording is a track called "Indoor Voices Off" (which was originally released exclusively on Asbestos Records' benefit compilation, Shine Some Light), but two songs, "Hans Christian Andersen" and "A Pissing Match" were later recorded and released after LaTaille's departure under the pseudonym At Home Among Thieves (they appeared on Topshelf Records' 2006 Northeast Sampler). Sixfinger played their last show at the John Boyle O'Reilly Club in Springfield, Mass in April 2006.

The band's name is a reference to the 1973 William Goldman novel, The Princess Bride. 

2) The second is a German metal band whose website is located at www.sixfinger.de. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sixfinger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.