Skeletons is a name of at least five acts:

1)  Skeletons formed in 2002, in Oberlin, Ohio (aka Skeletons and the Kings of All Cities, Skeletons & The Girl-Faced Boys, Skeletons Big Band, and Skeleton$), initially the work of Matt Mehlan -- a rather idiosyncratic pop songwriter who uses loads of electronics -- had a very low-key beginning in Oberlin, OH, with a pair of albums (I'm at the Top of the World and Life and the After Birth) released on the Shinkoyo label, which Mehlan co-founded. At some point, Mehlan was joined by Carson Garhart, Severiano Martinez, Jason McMahon, and Johnny Misheff. 

In its various forms, the band has toured around the world, and recorded for Ghostly International, Tomlab, Crammed Discs, Altin Village and Mine, and Shinkoyo — the imprint they co-founded.  

Sites: shinkoyo.com and BandCamp

2) A pseudonym of Benedic Lamdin (aka The Hermit and Nostalgia 77), who used this name to release "Smile" (Mar 2010, Impossible Ark Records).

Sites: Discogs

3) A UK-based sludge/black metal band from Merseyside. They released a demo Skinning Angels in 2011 and their debut A Serious House one year later. Revenant followed in 2013. They also brought 2 EPs Ever Downwards and Marionettes to life the same year. For 2014 you can await Tombs.

See Facebook for more info.

4) A Sheffield, UK band, formed from the ashes of a Sheffield band with a fierce reputation for the best live show in the UK. After almost a year in preparation and with just a handful of people lucky enough to witness the elusive 5-piece, Skeletons are now ready to take back that crown. A few eagle-eyed critics have managed to stow away into invite only secret shows and had the following things to say. 

".forcing 10,000 volts into this Sheffield five-piece would barely muster the power for the keyboard, never mind the rest of the group!" 

"Skeletons wield a staggering blues rock foot stomping sound whilst remaining within the realms of their Sheffield background" 

"I truly believe if you're reading this article hoping to find a new favourite band, you don't have to read much further. the band are a rock n roll force to be reckoned with, the live domain is theirs!" 

Skeletons have a die-hard mentality and an arsenal of songs to match their enigmatic ability. Make sure you catch the first batch of shows this summer... If early indications are anything to go by you will be the one bragging when the band achieve their potential. 

The band will be appearing at this years prestigious Reading and Leeds festival.

5) Based in Adelaide, Australia a self-described 'pop' outfit that played their first string of shows in June 2007 and are single handedly responsible for making noise and toneless Gang of Four-reminiscent chants cool again. 
Announced their final show on November 20th 2008 with God God Dammit Dammit and have recently self-released their cd entitled, 'Black Jungle Blues' . 

Dave: Guitar / Bass
Liam: Guitar / Bass
Paul: Sax / Synth
Tim: Percussion
Sam: Percussion

www.myspace.com/skeletonsband

6) A defunct Redding, CA, USA hardcore band, circa 2006-2007

www.myspace.com/skeletons666 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skeletons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.