Skeletonwitch is a blackened thrash metal band that formed in 2003. The band formed in Athens, Georgia by Nate Garnette (Guitar), Scott Hedrick (Guitar),Chance Garnette (Vocals), Evan Linger (Bass), Derick Nau (Drums).  In 2011, Derrick Nau left the band, replaced by Dustin Boltjes.

Skeletonwitch released their first album, At One with the Shadows, on August 11, 2004 with Shredded Records.

The band then released a quick fiery demo in 2004 and then released an EP Worship the Witch in 2005, both of which were self-released due to the failed Shredded Records. This lead to a lot of interest with fan and labels, with their new matured style.

After being signed to Prosthetic, Skeletonwitch released Beyond the Permafrost on October 2, 2007.
Skeletonwitch was featured as one of four opening acts for Danzig's 2008 Blackest of the Black tour.

On October 13, 2009, Skeletonwitch released their third studio album, Breathing the Fire, which debuted at #151 on the Billboard 200 charts. Skeletonwitch's song "Soul Thrashing Black Sorcery" was featured on the soundtrack of the video game Brütal Legend. The song "Crushed Beyond Dust" became featured on the Rock Band network on February 28, 2010. Skeletonwitch was featured on all of the dates of Ozzfest 2010.

Skeletonwitch was featured on an Adult Swim video for their song "Bringers of Death" in 2010. "Bringers of Death" also appears on the Adult Swim heavy metal compilation titled Metal Swim.

In March 2011, Skeletonwitch parted ways with drummer Derrick "Mullet Chad" Nau and temporarily replaced him with Tony Laureano. Skeletonwitch's fourth studio album, Forever Abomination, was released on October 7, 2011. It is the first album to feature Dustin Boltjes on drums, replacing Derrick Nau.

Adam Clemans – lead vocals
Nate Garnette – guitars
Scott Hedrick – guitars
Evan Linger – bass
Dustin Boltjes - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skeletonwitch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.