Skeptical Minds are a female-fronted Belgian band that plays a blend of metal and electronics. Their first album, Rent to Kill, was released in 2005.

Following the release of their first studio album things picked up in 2005. 

Their participation in two well known festivals helped.  At Rotonde Festival, in Hirson (Fr) sharing the line up with Lacuna Coil, Moonspell, Epica, or Apocalyptica, the band creates a sensation:

- « Without any doubt the discovery of this festival » Rock Hard, Fr (July 2005)
- « The band made a very good show,  with a superb guitar player (Michel) and a wonderful female singer (Kristell), but also a top bass player  (Pascal) » Ultimetal, Fr

Their second big festival was the Metal Female Voices Fest 3 (Belgium) with Lacuna Coil, After Forever, Leaves’ Eyes, Epica, etc. The band sold more than 100 copies of their album in one day. Reviewers were very positive:  
- “One of the more memorable performances of the day”, Musical Discoveries, USA.
- “Surely the most promising newcomers of this festival », Sounds 2 Move, Germany.

The band also played that year with Akphaezya, The Birthday Massacre, Dylath-Leen and The Old Dead Tree.

The album Rent To Kill was reviewed by the French magazine Rock Hard « as a real master stroke ».

They returned to MFVF 4 and MFVF 8 again sharing the bill with other big names.

They are under license with American label Sirenette Records, for a deal in USA, Mexico, and Canada.

Their second studio album,], was released in October 2010.

After a live DVD (Watch Your Live, 2011), a 4-track vinyl only EP (Living in a Movie, 2013) and a live CD (Run For Your Live!, 2014), and a few lineup changes, Skeptical Minds are back with a brand new album based on a comic book by Alain Poncelet, the band's new fifth member.

Omega Thanatos was released in October 2015 by FYB Records as a hardcover comic book containing the CD. Reviews have been very positive so far and the band are now touring to promote the album.

Current lineup : 

Karolina Pacan - Vocals
Michel Stiakakis - Guitar
Patrice Brugneaux - Bass
Benjamin Lazzano - Drums

Official site : http://www.skepticalminds.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skeptical+Minds">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.