There are multiple artists who have used the name Skimmed:
1. Hardcore/metal Czechoslovakian band (late 80's).
2. Indie rock band from Malta (current).
1. Skimmed was from Brno (Czechoslovakia) in the beginning called INSANIA … band, that took an interest in hardcore and metal … INSANIA started to spread their fallen music in 1987. In 988 the band played five gigs and then stopped playing, because they were prohibited to do so by masters from StB (secret state police in Czechoslovakia). To be able to play at least in garages and cellars the band took the code name SKIMMED. They still play in the same line-up as at the beginning: Petr Pálenský - guitar, vocal; Martin Maleček - drums, Martin Vrbík - bassguitar. In 989, during the revolution, demo New Insanity (Christmas of Freedom) was recorded in their rehearsal room. The band keeps the name SKIMMED even after the revolution. In 990 they release the first independent vinyl LP in Czechoslovakia - New Insanity. Through underground paths it is distributed to the rest of Europe and USA and gets wonderful reviews in magazines like Maximum Rock'n'Roll etc. The band is even contacted by Jello Biafra. SKIMMED appear on several compilations the best known of which is the comp. of Czech HC bands FUCK OFF MAJOR LABELS! and SON OF BLLLEEEAAAUUURRRGGGHHH released in San Francisco by label Slap a Ham. SKIMMED make several concert tours in Poland, play three gigs in Switzerland, several gigs in Germany and Austria… then the band go on playing in their mother country, but later their activity weakens and in 1992 the band stops to exist. The new INSANIA is formed, but it's quite a new formation, because in this band only the guitarist is from the original line-up. INSANIA then takes a little bit different direction in hardcore…
Info about albums on discogs and about the band on Bigbít (in Czech).


2. Skimmed from the island of Malta are Alexandra, Daniel, Fede and Toffer.

They announced their arrival on the local scene a few years back in  2009 with a brace of energetic live gigs, and rather more importantly, an impressive debut EP by the name of Your Head is Too Big for Your Crown.

That 2009 release featured an absolutely infectious foray into indie rock that refused (and still refuses) to sit still. Three years on, the band is back with Summer Lovers, its first full-length album which, despite its title, is to be released in February.

The first taste of Skimmed’s latest work is a gem of a tune called Ronnie, which the band gave away as a free download to whet our appetites, and it sure has.

Inspired to a degree by one of pop’s golden eras, the song has an underlying indie sensibility that resonates far deeper than the saccharine-sweet melody driving it along; a sure sign that the band has been doing its fair share of musical exploration.

Based on this song and the material Skimmed have been showcasing in recent gigs, one suspects that the music that awaits us on Summer Lovers will extend Skimmed’s appeal beyond the alternative scene, while still clinging to their essential indie roots.

To download the song, go to http://soundcloud.com/skimmedtheband. More information about the band and the upcoming album launch is available at www.facebook.com/skimmed.

By Michael Bugeja | The Sunday Times | 13/01/2013

Find out more about Skimmed from www.skimmedmusic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skimmed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.