SKINNED jumped into the scene in 1995. Members were Travis Weickum (Guitars/Vocals), Dave Dundas (Bass), Tom Sandage (Drums). In 1995 a live recording was recorded and they sold them out of thier trunks in thier local area. Then in 1996 "Army of the Dead" was recorded. Rob Craft took over on vocals at this time. The demo actually started the first big buzz for SKINNED in the death metal underground. The next two years, three new songs were released out on compilations. Then, in 1998 they realesed a split cd with another Colorado band, Mentally Murdered (Jason Parrott now on the drums). "Bloody Orifice" was the title of SKINNED's half of the split. Six songs of crushing death metal that grew faster than the band could reallize. By this time they did some touring on the east coast, playing fests and were doing a lot of mail across the world. The next year, two new songs were recorded but never got released into the scene. Dan Adams steped up and layed vocals down. Shortly after that, they broke up, ending the epic of SKINNED.

Now, in the year 2003, Guitarist (Travis), drummer (Jason), and vocalist (Dan) reformed the band that took the scene in the late 1990's. Now with 2nd guitarist (Ed Schmidt) and bass player (Andrew Roberts), they recorded 2 songs to add to thier next release "Grimoires". This cd contianed all the releases to date from the band. Datind clear back to the 1995 demo. At this time they stated to tour more in the states and find the following they were looking for.

In December of 2004, SKINNED went into the studio at Flatline Audio in Denver, CO. They recorded 8 new songs, making it the first new full release the band had ever put out. "Spawn of Insanity" was released in May 2005. (Travis) played the bass tracks because (Andrew) had seperated with the band. (Louis Micciullo) took over bass in 2005. It's by far the best release SKINNED has put out to date. Mixing old school with new school, and vocaly all over the place, they have opened some new doors. A tour in Europe and the UK followed the release in mid May, another tour in the UK in November as well as touring in the states and playing fests. Madison Speakers and amps endorsed SKINNED in 2004 and Kerly Music edorsed them in 2005 for thier "Sinister Strings". When a band has the passion to drive themselves through the ups and downs of band world, they grow as an entity. SKINNED is back and are growing faster than ever before. Keep your eyes peeled...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skinned">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.