SkiN OF TEARS exists since October 1991. In this early years as a "Four Guy Band" but now as a  "Power Trio" on the road playing  melodic Punk-Rock and Hardcore with almost every Style wich could be involved  (Reggae, Ska, Rumba, Polka, Grunge...) in the Music. Fresh, tasty and every Song is absolutely SOT.

In 1995 SkiN OF TEARS released their first Single. It was a Split-Single with Gigantor, followed by the MCD "Blinded" and the Longplayer "Shit happens" also in 95, wich was sold over 6.000 times.

1996 they did the Tour Support for PROPAGHANDI on their European-Tour  and played about 250 Concerts.

In 1997 they quit their contract with the Record Label and recorded the "Up the Cups" CD wich was released on their own Record Label "Rubble the Cat Records" in 1999.

     

Speed, Power and new Ideas with a fat sound let the listener feel how much fun the three guys have, making their music.

The years 1999 / 2000 were "Live Years" for Skin of Tears. They played as much as they can. With gigs in Germany (for sure) Belgium, Switzerland, England, Netherlands, Austria and Gigs with Bands like All, Bad Religion, Strunge out, Lagwagon, No use for a name, H-BlockX, Rancid, Shelter, etc. and Gigs on big Open Air Festivals like Bizarre, Rock am See, GroezRock, Ignore, Sinnlos, etc..

2001 SoT released their Album "Out of  Line" in a colaboration between Rubble the Cat- and Vitaminepillen - Records. This record includes 12 Songs from Punk, Ska and Pop to Hardcore to …..ROCK ! With the best sound SoT ever had on a Record.

2001 they also released the “Up the Cups” Album on NoMadness Records and some Songs on Compilations in Indoniesia. The rest of the year they’ve been on Tour in Europe and Indonesia.

2002 SoT released “Up the Cups” in Brazil. The Cover Album “After Eighties” was recorded to release it in Europe.

The rest of the year they spend their time with touring through France, Spain, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland and Germany again to complete the 500 Concert-Mark.
In December 2002 Imperial Records in Japan released the Punk It Compilations I & II which includes 2 Songs from SoT !

In January Imperial Records released the Out of Line Album in Japan.

The latest Album "ASS IT IS" was released in February 2004 on Vitaminepillen Records and Rubble the Cat Records.

This album shows with 14 songs 12 years of Skin of Tears. The rest of this year we'll be on the Road to rock the whole world.

In May 2004, after 13 years, Chris quit the band, to check out some new stuff. Good luck, mate. The new Bass-Man is Krusty.

2004 SoT had some Songs on Compilations: free online Compilation “PunkYou”, "Too much hard work" Compilation (UK) and japanese "PunkIt" Compilation (December 2004).
2005 SoT played some shows in cold Russia. In Moscow and St.Petersburg. There’s also one SoT Song on a russian Compilation. More gigs in Germany, Switzerland, Belgium followed this Year.
In December 2005 the Best of „Punk it“ Compilation was released in Japan, with the Skin of Tears Song “Suburbia”.

In 2006 Skin of Tears focused on songwriting. In Summer they’ve recorded four new Songs. Two songs have already been released in September 2006 on the Smalltownsounds Compilation.
In Autumn 2006 SoT played some Shows in Russia again.

2007 was the last year for SoT. They played the last two shows in december in their hometown club AJZ Bahndamm.

After 16 years on the road, we have many things to imagine about. Some things will always be in our minds and hearts .... many nice people we've met over the years and many many stories we have to tell about SoT. We had 16 awesome years with SoT and it was great to be a part of this band.

SkiN OF TEARS are:

Krusty - Bass/Vocals

Andi - Drums/Vocals

Toto - Leadvocals/Guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skin+of+Tears">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.