SklerotikZ has been categorized as an "Experimental Post Metal" band.

The beginning: 

The band was created under the name 'Uncanny' in September 2004 from Makis Lazaridis (former member Dihasmenes Alithies and Splitdawn ) on lead guitars, Theodosis Vlachos (WreckAge & former member of Dihasmenes Alithies, Drunkard, Greet the Dead, Bad Trip and No Second Chance ) on drums, Simos Lazaridis (Dysnerved & former member of Watc[0] & Syndicate) on rhythm guitars, Spyros Emmanouilidis ( Good Luck Mr. Gorsky ) and Marios Giannopoulo ( former member of Senseless ) as vocalists. The formation of the band remained the same until June of 2005 where Spyros and Simos left the band due to University obligations.

The establishment: 

There was a period of re-establishment and in the ends of November of 2005 the band changes its name to 'Sklerotikz' and Sotiris Vafeiadis as vocalists joined in, until May of 2009 where he had to leave the band for personal reasons, Konstantinos Bikos ( God of Rotors & Homoiratus ) on rhythm guitars and Nick Ritsis ( former member of Mindisease ) on bass guitar joined in. In February of 2006 Nick had to depart due to military obligations where George Sbokos filled in his place as a bass player until October of 2008 where he was replaced by Stratos Dionyssopoulos (former member of Necrofuneral & Crystal Tears ) until 2014. Tasos Ksudakis replaced Stratos D. in 2015 on bass guitar. 
A new addition to the band in November of 2008 was the cellist Panagiotis Iosif until 2010 when Kostas Kokkinos ( State Of Tension ) replaced the previews cellist. In September 2014 Kostas K. had to depart due to University obligations and with the returned of Simos Lazaridis on samples, keys and guitar the line up of SklerotikZ completed. 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

Discography: 

Sklerotikz released their debut album 'Equation Of Information Theory', recorded live at Rock Sound Studio, Thessaloniki with engineer Giorgos Brigos, in July 2006. 

In April 2007 Sklerotikz participated in the "free to download" Death-Grind-Thrash compilation "Rabid Planet - Volume I", which included 25 bands from Europe, Asia and USA. 

In September 2007 participated in the "Stars of a Happy Family" compilation along with: Ink, Personality Crisis, Mossbakk, No Sin, Ice in Eyes, It Won't Die, Bulldoza, Out of the Lair, Psycho Choke, 63 High, Leak, Rex Mundi, Senseless, Lazy Eye, Blind Tendril, Shock Absorber, Mindisease. 
Sklerotikz recorded their second release EP ” …[ UtitleD ]…” at Rock Sound Studio in Thessaloniki with engineer Theodosis V. in February of 2009. It's a digital release only for streaming and downloading. 

In Octomber 2013 Sklerotikz released their first official album “The Last Generation_Η Γενεά Του Σιδήρου” (Self-released) including 6 tracks total length 45min. 

For more information visit: sklerotikz.bandcamp.com 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 

SklerotikZ have shared the stage with: 

Sepultura, Psycho Choke, Bull Doza, Human Rejection, Koncave, Eden Demise, 7t7, Darkstar, One Block Society, Drunkard, Genna Apo Kοlo, Rotting Flesh, Ice in Eyes, It, Freefall, Dichasmenes Alithies, No Way Out, Nidus, Second Nature, Twin Peags, Studiowaste, Como Esta Loco, Revolting Breed, Black Candles, Blind Tendril, Dustynation, Hangover, Leak, Mossback, National Pornografik, Psycharmonika, Sacred Blood, Mahakala, Tardive Dyskinesia, God.Fear.None, Suicidal Angels, Convicted, Against The Society, Veil, Head Cleaner, Kvazar, Samataz, Sickening Horror, Agnes Vein, Entry Is Not Allowed, King Fungus, Meanwhile In Mexico, Universe 217, Instant Boner, Wreckage, Lexis Spheres. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SKLEROTIKZ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.