Daniel Galda and Joerg Huettner met one another in the so-called "Wagner City" of Bayreuth in 1993. The two musicians played under the influence of experiemental electronic music between 1994-1996 and recorded various demo sessions. At this point there was no thought to actually publish these songs.

(Skorbut is also a german Group of some crazy guys which sings old seaman songs on a new way. Listen and look at http://www.fischmusik.de.)

 

At this time, Joerg Huettner was an active member of the bands Relatives Menschsein and Dorsetshire. Daniel Galda was a member of kAlte fArben and made a name for himself as a live musician for Das Ich.

 

In 1998, Flatline Records took an interest in the Duo's songs, and decided to put the song Fuel on their now legendary Flatline Compilation. The song was a hit for months in underground clubs across Europe and America. As a result, more compilation and sampler contributions followed and the call for a Skorbut release became stronger.

 

In 2000, Skorbut became a trio. The new man in the group is named Rober Pollich. Robert strengthened Skorbut as a lyricist, live keyboarder and additional vocalist and is thus viewed as a full-time member of the band.

 

The debut Album Log_In was released in 2001 with the german Label Scanner. This record was exceptionally well received abroad and established itself with songs like 5 Minutes Rhythm or Next Step Of Evolution in the Clubs.

 

Due to its success, Skorbut decided to begin work on a new Album. In 2003, the band and its label Scanner parted ways. The new label is called Sonic-X and the new CD Access all areas, launched in 2005 continuing the musical journey of Skorbut.

 

In April 2007 the third album Firewall will be released. Ahead of the release of the full length album Firewall, a pre-release EP 9 Lives Later was made available for download on the Skorbut web site. The band, which is once again a duo, has noticeably progressed musically without losing their roots in their earlier recordings. Firewall demonstrates a great step forward for the band, accompanied by new, sophisticated artwork, photos and logo, which was done in cooperation with well-reknowned photographer Ansgar Noeth. Together, these create a refined and well-rounded Work, which will attract more than just musical attention. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skorbut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.