There are multiple artists with this name:

(1) Speed Metal band from Netherlands, formed in 1983.
(2) Death Metal from Austria, formed in 1991.
(3) Black/Thrash Metal from Thailand formed in 2010.
(4) Metal/Hardcore band from U.S.A., formed in (?)
(5) Metal band from Japan, featuring Hisayoshi Hiraga (Rosenfeld) on vocals.

(1) Speed Metal from Netherlands, formed in 1983. They  released one demo "No Boundary from Hell" and a split called Metal Deadness, with Second Hell in 1986. The split was re-issued in 2006 by Diabolical Constellation Productions as a Digipack CD, and re-issued again in 2010 by Nuclear War Now! Productions on picture disc version.

(2) Death Metal from Austria (Niklasdorf, Styria), formed in 1991, featuring members of  Force (AUT) and Invocation (AUT). They released one demo called "DeathMatch" (1993), and two full-lenght albums: "The Darkside of Humanity" (1996), and "Tormented" (2000). They disbanded in 2001.

(3) Black/Thrash from Thailand (Bangkok), formed in 2010. They have a self-released demo "In The Name Of War" limited to 66 copies

Line-up:
Venomanzer - Vocals
666Crusher - Guitars
Torment Storm - Bass
Skullbreaker Holocaust - Drums

(4) Metal/Hardcore from New York, U.S.A.

A handful of bands throughout the last few decades of 'hard' music have been able to capture that elusive gray area of creative overlap where hardcore, metal, and rock morph into one crushing wall of sound where everything to the listener is somewhat familiar and yet still completely fresh. The list is pretty short, and most people fond of the underground would be able to rattle off at least a few of these heavy hitters. The underlying structures and ideas to this formula aren't anything mind boggling...it's rock-based music after all. But sometimes even the most simple sounds, when played right and through the right gear, can be devastating. 

Skull Crusher is an attempt by obsessed fans of hard music to blend their favorite elements of the above. If you took a mixtape (cassette of course) of the Cro-Mags, early Metallica, Danzig, The Icemen, Underdog, Raw Deal, Judge, and Rollins Band, and had to try to form one sound out of them, Skull Crusher wouldn't be too far off. 

(taken from the band's Myspace)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skull+Crusher">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.