Skull refers to several artists.

1) SKULL is a japanese Visual Kei band formed in 2003 as スカル-THE SKULL- with SIN on vocals, ダイ (Dai) on guitars,  さくら (Sakura) on bass and  てつや (Tetsuya) on drums.

In the middle of 2008, Sakura decided to leave the band. Then in early 2009 he was replaced by りょう (Ryou) and they got a new guitarist Kouta (ex-Schmelz Cure) to make them a five member band. After this, the band changed its name to SKULL.

They released 4 singles and one mini album with their new line up until they disbanded, playing their last live on March 26, 2011.

SKULL official homepage: http://www.skull-web.com

2) Skull is one of the recording monikers of English producer and former Output Recordings label boss Trevor Jackson, known more popularly as Playgroup and The Underdog.  Skull's music was heavy, plodding instrumental hip-hop with stuttering, syncopated beats and slowed down sounds.  Apart from compilation appearances, there is one Skull release, Snapz

3) Skull is also the name of a defunct Swedish thrash metal band, formed in 1990, who released one private demo during the same year. In addition to the demo, they also appeared with the track "On a mission in blood" in the CBR compilation "Projections of a Stained Mind" from year 1991. The band members went on to form Teddybears STHLM now simply called Teddybears

4) There is another artist named Skull (스컬) who is a Korean reggae solo artist in U.S. and also part of the Korean duo, "Stony Skunk."
Skull's Myspace: click

5) it's also the first Thiaz Itch project from 1999 to 2000: hardcore / breakcore / speedcore music
for more info goto thiazsch.free.fr/archives.htm

6) Hamilton, Ontario based sludge/doom act.

7) SKULL is the one of the online identities ot thebigredbutton (http://last.fm/user/thebigredbutton/). He uses this alias to make music, mainly focusing on the hardcore techno, speedcore and terrorcore genres.

8) Skull is Colombian thrash metal band, who released a cassette called "Beer, Metal, and Spikes" in 2004.

9) Drum & Bass producer from Liege, Belgium.

10) An alias of Andrea Benedetti, italian 'techno' producer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skull">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.