Skull Fist is a Canadian heavy metal band that began their quest for world domination and forever riding the beast in 2006. The band was formed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

After releasing their first EP "Heavier Than Metal" including drummer Alison Thunderland, guitarist Sir Shred and bassist Casey Slade they signed up with with NoiseArt Records. They toured across Canada in support of it.

Their quest continued along with a short tour in 2011 opening for fellow heavy metallers Enforcer and Bullet. After the tour they began recording their debut album "Head Öf The Pack". Sadly enough, during the recordings drummer Alison and guitarist Shred left the band due to personal conflicts. Jackie and Casey continued writing the album together.

Eventually, their debut album "Head Öf The Pack" was released on august 26th, 2011. Jonny and Jake were recruited as drummer and guitarist and The Fist was back on full power. They toured Canada supporting their album. 

Overseas in Europe, they opened up for Sabaton, PowerWolf and Grave Digger and continued supporting their album. They ended up in playing on several European festivals.

In the beginning of 2012, they did another European tour featuring Grand Magus, Bullet, Steel Wing and Vanderbuyst and kept on touring ever since.

January 10th, 2014 they released their second full album ''Chasing the Dream'' with NoiseArt records.  After the release of their second album, these fools of the road have toured Europe, UK, Japan, South America, Mexico, and Canada many times over and now are touring across USA, January 2015. 

Canadian heavy metal rockers Skull Fist, now consisting of frontman Zach Slaughter (also known as Zach Schottler), bassist Casey Slade and drummer JJ Tartaglia (Thunderor) have unleashed a video for their new single “Madman” from their latest studio album 'Paid In Full', which was released via Atomic Fire Records on April 22, 2022.

Skull Fist, the band of moderately psychotic brothers, have spent the last few years in buses, vans, cars, planes, trains and automobiles touring their brains out in the name of freedom. They have gone from basements to bars, bars to clubs, and clubs to concert halls solely because they just can't stop and won't stop rocking!

The current line-up:
Jackie Slaughter - Guitar & Vocals
Casey Slade - Bass Guitar
JJ Tartaglia- Drums

Links
Facebook

Their merchstore can be found here! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skull+Fist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.