The Band was founded 1996 by Christoph Wansleben, Tobias Schaaf, Robin Steffens und Falko Groebel. Drummer Wolfgang Blank joined shortly after. Sky's Shadow recorded their first demo cd "Crusade" in this formation, the first step to where the band is now.

After about 4 years, the first switch took place. Falko Groebel left the band and in his stead, Tim Schneider joined the band as new vocalist and keyboard player.

There were more line-up changes through which the band developed, as every new musician - no matter how long (s)he worked with the band, which instrument (s)he played, or which other talent (s)he had - slipped his/her individual Influences in and that is exactly what shaped the band.

2001 they recorded their second demo cd "Time". One year later TIm Schneider said good bye (mostly due to his examination and upcoming internship) at one of Sky’s Shadows biggest gigs as support act of Status Quo and Birth Control. At the same concert, Pascal Lüders was announced as new frontman.

Pascal sung 2004 on their first album "Fate" and the band played at various popular festivals till they even had a gig at Slovenias "Metalcamp". After Pascal, as their third vocalist, Andreas Beschorner joined the band as third keyboarder, another big influence for the band. Before Andreas joined the band, it was Patrick Joisten who supported the band as keyboarder on their concerts. He still joins the band from time to time to play the keyboard at gigs.

After another 4 years had passed, Pascal Lüders left the band because of band-internal discrepancies in October 2006. Between 2006 and 2007, Sky's Shadow were in strong need of a new vocalist for their newly produced concept album inspired by the popular tragedy Romeo & Juliet until former frontman Tim Schneider declared himself ready to comply with returning to the band as vocalist and to perform live with the band in future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sky%27s+Shadow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.