Skyconqueror is a Heavy Metal Band from Muenster ( North West of Germany ) , founded in 1997 . The first rehearsals were done by Carsten Stiens on drums and Jan Tappert on guitar and in March 1997 the first song "Grim Reaper" saw the light of day. Shortly after Mirko Jankord joined the band as the bassist and after a few weeks Niko Saloustros became the lead singer.

On January 24 / 25th 1998 the demo CD "Streak of Lightning" was recorded by Carlos Silva at the Subsonic Studio in Rheine . Musically the CD can be described as traditional Metal . Containing songs like "Storm Warning" or "Skyconqueror" , the demo showed the early band. Although coming from Europe the recordings are more in the vein of US Metal .

On February the 27th 1998 the first gig was played at the Silmarillion in Werne and a couple of gigs followed until in July 2000 the first show was done with the line up , Daniel Hiller (Vocals), Jan Tappert (Guitar), Christian Kahlau (Guitar), Mirko Jankord (Bass) and Carsten Stiens (Drums) at the "Summer Metal Meeting" in Nordkirchen.

In September the same year the second demo-CD "Silver Haze Rising" was recorded ( 6 new songs ), again by Carlos Silva, and in October a gig was played in Lüdinghausen as kind of release party.

Until summer 2003 about 30 shows were done on several stages and open airs all around the home area of Skyconqueror. Also the band went to Rostock to play at the Bands Battle Festival 2002 .

Since mid 2003 the third demo CD "Forged In Hell" is available containing 6 songs in the vein of old Iron Maiden and Motörhead with melodic but non high vocals.

In fall 2005 Christian left the band. The current line up is Daniel Hiller (Vocals), Jan Tappert (Guitar), Mirko Jankord (Bass) and Carsten Stiens (Drums).

Skyconqueror love to play live no matter if it is in a pub or on a "proper" stage.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skyconqueror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.