Skyforest is a melancholic metal project of B.M. (A Light in the Dark, Blurry Lights, Hiki) from Podolsk, Russian Federation. First ideas and recordings were made in 2013, but the project was ready to surface only in early 2014. The music continues to expand the ideas left in B.M.'s previous project, Annorkoth, and basically it's a continuation of it under the new name. It's not just a simple name change but a separate project. All music is available for free download through official Bandcamp page.

The debut album of Skyforest 'Aftermath' was recorded with help of Tim/Sorrow (Germ, ex-Austere, ex-Woods of Desolation etc.) (providing drums, lyrics and vocals) as well as other musicians – Risen (Eintritt, Mealann, Phantom Mistress etc.) (intro/outro composing) and Julia H. (Juleah) (providing guest vocals on the song 'Together in Death').

The second album called 'Unity' was in the works from autumn 2015 until spring 2016, and released in April via Depressive Illusions Records (Ukraine). This time B.M. was behind all of the instruments (guitars, bass, drums, harsh and speech vocals) and lyrics. A few other people contributed to the album to complete the vision: Michael Rumple from Súl ad Astral provided recordings of clean vocal throughout the album and Robert Bekić recorded the tin-whistle part on Autumnal Embrace. The artwork was done by ukrainian artist and designer Sergey Shenderovskiy. The album was also released on vinyl through Northern Silence (Germany).

In 2017, first album 'Aftermath' was re-issued on CD (Depressive Illusions) with brand new artwork, completely remastered and remixed music and a bonus track.

In 2018, an EP called 'Harmony' was released, offering purely acoustic/folk music. As stated by B.M. himself: "This acoustic mini-album serves as a transition from Unity to what will come next eventually." Besides B.M. and Michael, Arina Fox (who has done clean vocals on other B.M.'s project Hiki) also joined to perform a bit of clean singing on the title track. The EP was issued by Depressive Illusions on CDs and tapes in July 2018. The artwork of the EP was done once again by Sergey Shenderovskiy.
Also, during this year it was announced that Michael Rumple takes permanent place on clean vocals in Skyforest.
In October, 'Harmony' was issued on vinyl via Casus Belli Musica & Beverina Productions alliance, limited to 100 copies.

In 2020, Feb 20, the third full-length album called 'A New Dawn' was released. The album has been in the works throughout 2019 and, as stated by B.M. himself, the sound of it lies somewhere between 'Aftermath' and 'Unity' - more heavy parts like in the first while keeping the symphonic approach of the latter. Once again, the clean vocals were done by Michael while the rest was handled by B.M. Two songs from the album has seen the guest appearance of Clare De Lune (Edenfall) who also provided clean vocals. The artwork was painted by Sergey Shenderovsky for the third time in a row. 'A New Dawn' was issued by Northern Silence Productions (Germany) on CD and vinyl, and by Depths of Void (Russia) on cassette tapes.
In the same year, 'Harmony' EP (vinyl) was re-issued in a new color by Casus Belli Musica & Beverina, and 'Aftermath' album has finally seen its debut on wax through Northern Silence Productions who launched this edition along with the new album 'A New Dawn'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Skyforest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.