Slagsmålsklubben (often abbreviated as SMK) is an electro/pop group from Norrköping, Sweden. The name Slagsmålsklubben is the literal Swedish translation of  "The Fight Club", referring to the popular novel and movie. They have released four full length albums so far. Along with their side projects, they have been featured on Björk's compilation CD Army of Me: Remixes and Covers. 

SMK's members are Björn Nilsson, Hannes Stenström, Joakim "Beebop" Nybom, Joni Mälkki, Kim Nilsson, and Frej Larsson. The members of the band have many side projects, such as 50 Hertz and Häxor och porr, which feature many of SMK's members, Din Stalker, Hannes' solo project, and Offerprästers orkester, one of Frej's solo projects.

In 2005, the entire band moved to Berlin. As of July 2008, Kim lives in Berlin, Hannes & Frej live in Stockholm and Joni, Björn & Beebop live in Norrköping.

Slagsmålsklubben was formed November 2, 2000 in Norrköping, Sweden by Joakim "Beebop" Nybom, Björn Nilsson and Joni Mälkki, former members of prog rock band The Solbrillers.

The idea of forming a synthpop band occurred to them at a band practice with The Solbrillers. Since the singer of the band wouldn't show up, they decided to plug in Joni's old synthesizer into his guitar amplifier. The three recorded a few songs, which eventually led to the forming of SMK.

Hannes Stenström joined the band one year later, 2001 because he had much better synthesizers than them. Frej Larsson joined them in 2003 after they had made the 7" Hyreshusklossar together and 2004 Kim Nilsson joined the band.

The name Slagsmålsklubben is a Swedish translation of the title of the movie Fight Club. It's pronouced "slaks-mauwls-clueb-en" in English. The idea for the name was born when Joni wrote "Slagsmålsklubben" instead of Fight Club on a burned DVD containing the movie.

During their 2008 Europe tour, they gained a lot of attention in England, Belgium and France, among other countries. They supported bands like The Whitest Boy Alive, Late of the Pier and Video Nasties. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Slagsm%C3%A5lsklubben">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.