This profile is shared by two different bands. One of them is from Brasil - www.slasher.com.br and the other one is from Austria - www.slasher.at.vu.

There is also a hip hop group from golden age with only one known track.

The biography below refers to the Slasher from Brasil:

Holder of an agressive, elaborated and modern music, Slasher sums the influences of each member to the thrash metal, resulting in unique compositions which are not tied to rules or limitations of the genre. The lyrics are harsh criticisms to society, religion, politics and psychological conflicts.

The band's history began in 2008 in Itapira - São Paulo, with the first EP, Broken Faith, being released. This record was very well received by fans and media, ensuring a prominent place in major rock/metal medias from Brasil (Rodie Crew Magazine, Whiplash.net, etc). This album was highlighted by magazines and radio stations in several countries in North America and Europe.

This positive reception and the hard work in communication performed by the group, gave awards in many festivals and cultural contests. The band was selected by representatives from Sony Music, EMI Music, Maquinária and SWU to participate in an compilation in which the band was the only one in the rock/metal genre. As a result of these activities, the band was invited to participate in major events such as the W:O:A Metal Battle Brasil, Ratos de Porão, Angra and André Matos. Slasher also figured among the highest rated "Best bands from São Paulo" in a survey conducted by Whiplash.net site in 2010.

The band is promoting "Pray For The Dead", début album produced by Ricardo Piccoli (Shadowside, Kamala) at Piccoli Studio in Campinas - São Paulo. The cover artwork was made by the french artist Stan W-D. It was released independently on May 13th, 2011. With great Thrash Metal's influence, the album has 11 tracks with strong and straightforward lyrics.

Members:

Daniel Carneiro - Vocal
Wellington Clemente - Bass & Backing Vocal
Lúcio Nunes - Guitar & Backing Vocal
Lucas Aldigheri - Guitar & Backing Vocal
Alyson Taddei - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slasher">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.