Originally formed in early 2005 under an untitled name and w/ original vocalist James Roberts and musical madman Adam Garrow Slaughtered Remains began as a side project. In the start the untitled duo had an Extreme Death Metal / Avant Garde sound and released a 3 song underground demo that began to catch the ears of the scene. After gaining a decent fan base but due to conflicting time schedules James was no longer apart of this project and left Adam with a choice to either keep going or stop. Adam chose to keep it going under the name Sewn Shut for a brief time until finding out there where 2 other bands then named the same. After time Adam picked Slaughtered Remains as his choice for this project.

Now w/ a permanent band name in check Adam began recording and releasing free E.P downloads and building a loyal fan base. With Slaughtered Remains 1st release "Human Sawed Sludge" E.P, with songs like Blood Drenched Cum Rag, DIE ALREADY! and others Slaughtered Remains began to grow in the underground scene and then with SR second release "The Attack Of Sick E. Von Brutal" E.P gave the market a change it needed with the title track The Attack Of Sick. E Von Brutal.

Later on with Adam in and out of labels Adam and close friend Burt Straight started the underground death metal label Morgue House Records. Releasing a featured track Chainsaw Removal on "Morgue House Records Presents: Welcome To The Morgue Vol. 1". With Adam working on MHR led to a brief hiatus w/ Slaughtered Remains until falling out w/ others in MHR left Adam no choice but to leave the label that he had originally started.

Now it has been almost 2 years and Slaughtered Remains is coming back in full throttle to give you all the most brutal, intense, and grotesque death metal this undying madman has to offer. With new music in the works and the long awaited release of "EAT THE FLESH" (IN THE WORKS) Slaughtered Remains is here for the long fucking hall!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slaughtered+Remains">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.