Four italian boys inspired by somes American thrash metal bands (Metallica, Slayer, Sodom, Megadeth), a little better by the groove metal (Chimaira, Lamb of God, Pantera) and extreme metal music (Cannibal Corpse, Dying Fetus, Emperor) decided to create a group that has as its aim to create original music, fun and technical at the same time.

The lineup for the first time included Simone Tempesta on drums, Fabrizio Losapio on vocals, Roberto Castorrini on guitar and vocals and Alessandro Trotto on guitars. A peculiarity of the band to keep in mind is that from the earliest evidence is beginning to write new songs, weaning the stereotype of the cover to acclimate.

Soon, the band adds Claudio Colantoni bass that finally completing the lineup, allows the band to record their first single "Smile" at Skie Studio of Becko (Hopes Die Last) and Cresta (Doomsday). The first release is a good recording discrete impact plays mainly thanks to the band's MySpace profile, graphically written by Andrea Nasca aka Michael Devimson.

Another big feature of the band that went against the traditional mentality of many metal bands emerging was that not to bet now live experience, but continued to compose as many parts as possible for inclusion in a future EP as the first real record out of 5.

Time passes, the band grows and grows well in every respect that line already glimpsed the beginning both musical and especially human. This was certainly the factor that brought the band to compose more than 5 tracks in just six months after the first single, including the musical and technical edition of the songs themselves.

It is the work sweating in recent months to compose, focus and working hard was the achievement of "Eyes of Madness", the band's first EP record, consisting of 6 tracks including a new version of the already famous "Smile".

All the work was recorded, mixed and mastered in the 16th Cellar Studio of Stefano "Saul" Morabito (Eyeconoclast), the name of national importance in the field of extreme metal. Six songs with various themes and stylistic influences wrapped deep in heavy doses of violence, technical and sometimes melody.

The next projects of band are certainly promoting the newly recorded work with both digital and physical distribution of the EP and live constantly in order to spread the word as far as possible. Now you can really say, more than ever, SLAUGHTER IS NOW!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slaughter+Denial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.