Slaughter of Souls did consist of four beer drinking bastards, these being in no particular order:-

Jules- Guitar/Vocals
Pete – guitars/vocals
Stu - Drums
Mike – Bass

The band got to together at the end of summer 2000, with intention of creating music they enjoyed, which had an added bonus of “face shredding metal” to all that would hear them. All members apprenticed to the old school way of enjoying the music and entertaining the crowd, coupled with the modern sound and production techniques have helped the band produce songs that will stand the test of time.

Within a short space of time the band gained a great deal of support from fans and press, most notably is terrorizer magazine who have said the following things about them -

Slaughter Of Souls put many a fist in the air with their well-paced and likable brand of gnarled death metal Swedophilia, mixing honest, headbanging energy and subtle melody with the odd gust of icy black metal
Terrorizer September 2001
 

……more than an average slice of originality
Terrorizer September 2001
 

….. if there's a tighter more engaging exponent of the kind of music on this fair isle, I'll eat my copy of, erm 'Terminal Spirit Disease'. It comes as something of a breath of fresh air to have a band playing 'good-time metal' in the current climate, and effortlessly making mincemeat of many other contenders in the process.
Terrorizer April 2002

In the September 2002 issue of terrorizer we were asked to put a track on their cover mount, this is the description that that wrote about the track.
Face Shredding METAL" is their aim, and on the strength of "13", keeping their word is their game, mixing the methodology of death metal with the velocity of black metal. The call-and-response interplay between the vocalist's dual personalities is masterful and should unify fans of each genre, but the classic punch of the riffs are going to stick in the memory of everybody.


The end of 2002 saw the band go into the Academy Studios with Mags at the engineering/production helm. (Cradle of Filth, My Dying Bride, Paradise Lost, etc…) Working with Mags helped bring out the best in the band over the 4 day session, & the four tracks that were recorded in this session make up the last promo 'Death Rock 666'
 

Straight after the recording the band did a spree of gigging, which saw them playing round all around the country. But alas after lots of successful gigs the band split at the end of August 2003, this was due other commitments some band members had.

All good things must end........ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slaughter+of+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.