There are two bands sharing the name "Slave Driver":

1) czech hardcore/post-punk band

"We created in 2009 to destroy this world. Fuck you. 

Band Members:

Daniel
Igi
Insar
Tom 

http://www.myspace.com/theslavedriver "

2)SLAVE DRIVER is a unique, Dark, Hardcore, Gothic Metal Band. There sound is Dark and Haunting. With the help of Keyboard Wizard Phil Di Maso, the newest member of Slave Driver, the band is able to achieve their unique Dark, Hardcore, Gothic sound. Their Classic CD "JUDGEMENT DAY" released in 1998 kicked off the bands career. The track L.A.'s Burning is included in the Low Budget, Sci-fi Thriller "CARNIVORE", and is also on the films Original Motion Picture Soundtrack out on Dark Star Records as of August 20, 2002. The soundtrack includes: L.A. Guns, Holland, Nitro, Madison Rhoades and more. Carnivore the movie is now being distributed in the USA by 20th CENTURY FOX and is available to rent at any Hollywood Video Store, or for purchase wherever DVD’s are sold. To promote the Movie and the Soundtrack, Maderfilm and Dark Star Records shot a video for the song “Mother Mary” performed by Slave Driver and starring “Catherine Chiarelli” of Temptation Island 2 and “Amiee Bravo” from the movie Jigsaw. After only 3 weeks the video had risen to the number 10 position on the National CVC charts and became the 10th most played video in the Nation. Armed with their new drummer “Blair Lehman” The band is currently Playing shows in promotion of thier new DVD titled: Slave Driver “live at the Milwaukee Metalfest XVII”. Also now available is the “JUDGEMENT DAY” ENHANCED PLATINUM EDITION CD that includes videos, pictures, lyrics and more. Their latest release is “Resurrection in Black” a three song EP of all new material available at itunes and other fine online music download services. The band Slave Driver will continue to conjure up New and Insane Dark Music and Imagery for as long as the eternal winds caress their pale dead flesh.  
 
Band:

Jeff Swan / Lead Vocals and Guitars

Bill Gingrich / 5-string Bass and Vocals

Phil DiMaso / Keyboards and Vocals

Blair Lehman / Drums and Vocals

 
Discography:

 
CD’s Movies and Soundtracks

“Resurrection in Black” (EP) 2005

“Judgement Day Enhanced platinum edition CD” (LP) 2003

“Mother Mary” and  “L.A.’s Burning” featured tracks on the “Carnivore Soundtrack” 2002

“L.A.’s Burning” featured track in the “Carnivore” Motion Picture 2001

“Judgement Day” (LP) 1998 re-released in 2000

 
Music Videos

“Mother Mary” 2003

 
DVD’s

“Slave Driver live at the Milwaukee Metalfest XVII” DVD 2004
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slave+Driver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.