5 Bands by this name

1. Sledgehammer swing their pendula of lo-fi garage pop/rock onto Melbourne’s pub scene with a distinctive coastal swagger.
Their forthcoming EP Blue Sheila is a droll garage force, close mic’d and mixed by Joe Walker at King Gizzard’s Brunswick East studio it is lush as it is ruthless. 

Sophia Lubczenko - guitar & vocals
Sam Cooper - guitar & vocals
Chris Jennings - bass guitar & vocals
Nick Robbins - drums & vocals

2. Sledgehammer was a UK band reportedly based in Slough and Huntingdon and associated with the new wave of british heavy metal movement. The band are best known for their 1979 and 80 singles sledgehammer and living in dreams. Their sole full length album, released in 1983, was titled blood on their hands, but was rereleased a year later with bonus tracks as sledgehammer. The band is now defunct, but a DVD called Live in London consisting of previously archived footage was released in 2005.

Sledgehammer consisted of:
Mike Cooke - guitar/vocals
John Hennessy - guitar (Driveshaft, Ore)
Killer Clint - bass
Ken Revell - drums

3.
Sledgehammer was a one-off side project featuring Dwid of Integrity on vocals along with members of Congress and Liar as the backing band.  Sledgehammer recorded all of their songs in a single day on $50.  The lyrical content of the songs are intended to be humorous and allude to their escapades on the Integrity European tour they completed before entering the studio.

4. 
Sledgehammer are also a legendary Japanese oi! band.

5.
A hardcore band from Adelaide Australia - released "shit at life" EP in 2007
Http://myspace.com/getfuckinghammered. Recorded new 12" July/August 2008, out soon.

6.
A Brazilian death metal band featuring members of Rebaelliun, Abhorrence, and Mental Horror.  They released one demo in 2003 titled "Bless the Plagues" and another in 2005 called "Third World Guerilla."

7.
80's punk band from Belfast, released one demo cassette: "Money Is The Root Of All Evil Demo" on warzone records <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sledgehammer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.