Sleep Thieves are Sorcha Brennan (vocals, synths), Wayne Fahy (Vocals, synths, bass, programming), and Keith Byrne (synths, guitar, bass, programming). The Dublin-dwelling trio met through Twitter where they bonded over film soundtracks and vintage synths. This musical friendship was solidified in the recording of their self-released EP, Islands in 2012, which garnered accolades from the press. If Kate Bush had joined Enya and Bat for Lashes to pen a soundtrack for Jane Eyre this album could be it. Haunting, dreamy and cinematic, it opens up and rolls in like a storm over the moors, calling out to a forgotten love, enticing and caressing the listener. 

For the album, You Want the Night, the band collected together an analogue and digital studio set up. Recorded by band member, Keith Byrne, this intimate approach allowed the band time and space to explore and create music with the confidence that only close friendship can provide. The band endeavoured to be set free of the constraints of filtering their ideas and sonic visions through a third party but instead to take charge and steer their own recording schedule and sessions. Rian Trench (Solar Bears) came on board to mix the tracks. 

After seeing them live, The Irish Times tagged the band "noir-disco" and this song perfectly captures that sound. The band describe their music as the sonic realization of memories, visions, emotions and experiences, set to a backdrop of the city skyline, inspired by its perpetual pulse. Their music has resonated with fans worldwide with 2.7 million Spotify plays. They’ve also gained fans in UK radio, receiving airplay through Eddie Temple-Morris & John Kennedy of XFM, Nemone, Chris Hawkins, Tom Robinson, Radcliffe Maconie and Lauren Laverne’s show on BBC 6Music Simon Raymond, Frank Skinner.
Sleep Thieves have opened for MS MR, Wild Nothing, Destroyer, Austra, St Etienne and Spector (UK). 2014 saw them play two shows at Electric Picnic (Body and Soul mainstage and The Electric Arena) and Culture Collide in San Francisco and LA as well as the FMC tour in Ireland. 2015 sees them touring at home, in Europe and the US. They will definitely entice you to stay up late, whether to dance or drift off in a daydream, but you won’t hold that against them. 
"Dublin-based trio Sleep Thieves make perfect music for a late night drive through quieting streets, past twinkling lights and the occasional wanderer-the sort of music that sits wonderfully alongside the work of groups like Glass Candy and Chromatics" - Pigeons and Planes
"City of Hearts is the very definition of noir-disco: dark, almost malevolent, with a cinematic tinge to it. Listening to it, you can just feel the night air whip past your face as you drive through the empty streets of a dark brooding city - the streetlights your only light, this track the only sound you can hear." - The Line of Best Fit
"Like Phantogram with a disco fetish, Dublin's Sleep Thieves utilize ethereal female vocals and dance beats that would make Giorgio Moroder proud. City of Hearts has a late-night vibe, which makes us wonder if Johnny Jewel had anything to do with it." - MTV Iggy


Sites: BandCamp  sleepthieves.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sleep+Thieves">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.