Sleigh Bells is an electronic and noise pop duo formed in 2008 in Brooklyn, New York, USA. The band members are Alexis Krauss (vocalist, lyricist) and Derek E. Miller (songwriter, guitarist, producer). Miller was formerly the guitarist for the hardcore band Poison the Well, and Krauss was a member of the teen pop group RubyBlue.

In 2008, Miller was waiting tables at a neighborhood Brazilian restaurant, Miss Favela, where he encountered Alexis and her mother. When he mentioned he was looking for a female vocalist to work with on a musical project, Krauss' mother immediately volunteered her. After steadily gaining popularity throughout 2009, Sleigh Bells signed to M.I.A.'s label N.E.E.T. in Spring 2010.

The duo released the 7-track EP Sleigh Bells. The EP received much attention and all but the last two tracks were re-recorded for their debut album.

Sleigh Bells issued the single "Tell 'Em" as a free download in April 2010. On 11 May 2010, they released their debut full-length album entitled Treats. Amidst blown-out drum beats, fuzzed guitars and synth-pop sensibilities, Krauss balances each song with a voice that is both forceful and elegant. Four other singles supported the album: "Crown on the Ground", "Infinity Guitars", "Rill Rill" and "Riot Rhythm".

Sleigh Bells began recording songs for their second studio album in June 2011. Describing the sound of the new album, Krauss said, "It sounds really huge, so there's going to still be tons of volume".

On 15 December 2011, the band released the single "Born to Lose", followed in January 2012 by "Comeback Kid". The second album, Reign of Terror, was released on 21 February 2012. They made their network television debut on the 18 February 2012 episode of Saturday Night Live, performing the songs "Comeback Kid" and "End of the Line".

Only a few months after the release of Reign of Terror, Sleigh Bells began writing a third studio album for a possible 2013 release. Before the end of 2012, the album was said to feature more writing from Krauss and with a cleaner sound. The album, titled Bitter Rivals, was released on 8 October 2013, through Mom + Pop Music. According to Krauss, several tracks would feature dynamic acoustic riffs and R&B-ish vocals. In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine, Krauss clarified the new style of the album, saying, "I was interested in doing something Beyoncé or Janet Jackson would do, these slow-winding, sparkling melodies."

On 7 December 2015, Sleigh Bells premiered a new song titled "Champions of Unrestricted Beauty", while announcing they were finishing up their fourth studio album. The duo released the single "Rule Number One" on 7 June 2016, followed by "Hyper Dark" on 19 July 2016. On 24 August 2016, Sleigh Bells released their fourth studio album Jessica Rabbit, marking the first release on the duo's own label, Torn Clean, in partnership with Sinderlyn. The mini-album Kid Kruschev followed on 10 November 2017.

Sleigh Bells released their sixth studio album, Texis, on 10 September 2021 through Mom + Pop Music. Music videos were released for album singles "Locust Laced" and "Justine Go Genesis".

Official site: https://tornclean.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sleigh+Bells">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.