There are two artists sharing the name Slider: 1) a rock band from Nashville, TN, and 2) a solo musician from Israel.

1) Slider is a rock band from Nashville, TN. The band consists of vocalist and guitarist Mariah Schneider, guitarist Marcus Wanner, bassist, Kyle Hanson, and drummer Caleb Powell. The band formed in 2014 and introduced a new sound to rock music, pulling influences from alternative and punk rock, as well as pop, jazz, and progressive rock.

The band released their first album, Gravity Waves, on October 25th, 2019. It is currently available on all major distributors and streaming services. Over the years, the four piece band has released covers of various songs, including Closer to the Heart (originally recorded by Rush) , Roxanne (originally recorded by The Police), Undone - The Sweater Song (originally recorded by Weezer), and Fake Happy (originally recorded by Paramore). They also released two music videos, one for their song "Road Trip" and the other for "Cut Me Loose," as well as a medley titled "The Christmas Sweater Song/Christmas," exclusively available on YouTube.

taken from: http://slidermusic.com

2) Slider is Eliran Orgad, born in 1980 in Israel. Eliran started his musical carrier as a DJ at the young age of 15, at the age of 16 he started to learn the craft of music making and producing, after a few years of experimenting eliran established his solo project named Slider which gained big success and he played in numerous events and festivals in Israel. 

During these years Eliran also had a key role in producing and promoting Psy Trance events all over Israel and he was in charge of Psy Trance party lines in respected clubs such as: Ultrasound, Vox, TLV and more... 

In 2006 Eliran had stopped making parties and producing under the name Slider and started a new project “Double Impact” together with a new partner. The project lasted for a year, became a big attraction in a very short time and played all over the world. After a year the duo had different thinking about the music and Eliran decided to go back to his old name Slider and put all of his efforts in it. 

Since then Slider is been working in the studio constantly and making his unique Psy Trance which is best described as strong, groovy, psychedelic Full On Trance. Slider has preformed in major parties all around the globe, his unique live performance includes drum machine and guitars and very powerful electric atmosphere that will get any audience in the world dancing and partying. 

Slider has collaborated with top acts such as: Dino, Sub6, Sun project, Psysex, Perplex, Shanti, and many and released his new music in many of the world leading Trance labels such as: Hommega, Vision Quest, Spun, Chemical crew, BNE and more. 

Slider has recently signed in the one of the most promising labels in the trance scene, Noya Records, there he will release his debut album in September 2008 and will release also a compilation in the beginning of 2009. 
Be sure to catch his performance in a party near you.

taken from: http://www.myspace.com/eliranslider <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slider">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.