There are a number of bands and artist using this name.

1. Slide (Pete Martin). Psychedelic trance producer in the 90's.

2. Slide from the United States. The foundations of Slide, an alternative rock four-piece were formed in the 1980s. They were featured on REX Records in the 1990s. Band members:
James Preston - vocals/keyboards
Mike Baker - drums/programming/guitar
Chris Berry - lead guitar
Jeff Lantry  - bass guitar
www.slidemusicgroup.com

3. Slide were from Glasgow, Scotland.  Formed in the 1980s.  They toured with GUN and Texas and released the album 'Down So Long'.  The biggest hit from the album was called 'Why is it a crime?'

Band members: 
Kenny Paterson - Lead Guitar
Richard Hynd - Drums (went on to play with Texas)
Scott Fraser - Bass
Grant Richardson - Vocals & Acoustic

4. Slide are a youthful, awe inspiring quartet of talented traditional musicians who are completely re-inventing the Irish music scene with a pulsing energy. Slide are:

Éamonn de Barra (flute whistles keyboard vocals), young musician of the year 2000
Aogán Lynch (concertina whistles vocals), TG4 young musician of the year ’99
Daire Bracken (fiddle guitar vocals), founder member of IMM band of the year ’99 Danú 
Mick Broderick (bouzouki mandolin vocals).

5) Slide were an acoustic band from Leeds playing a mixture of traditional songs and tunes (Celtic/English/American) and original material. Tom Bliss and Derek Magee wrote and arranged tunes, and Tom Bliss and Neil Russell Whitaker contributed songs. The range of instruments speaks for itself, but Slide was not about eclecticism or virtuosity. It was about good Celtic roots music, filtered though 50 years of backbeat, and presented in a refreshing, accessible style that should delight non-folkies just as easily as it satisfies the die-hard trad fan. Slide had a distinctive sound and style somewhere between folk, bluegrass, rock and pop that was uniquely its own, and which put a fresh edge on everything they did. 

The members were:
Tom Bliss - Vocals, Guitar, Mandocello, Whistles, Fiddle, Flute
Derek Magee- Fiddle, Uilleann Pipes, Low Whistle, Guitar, Mandolin
Neil Whitaker- Vocals, 5 String Banjo, Guitar
John Layton- Bass Guitar, Keyboards
Rod Taylor- Fiddle, Guitar, Mandolin, Percussion (appearing at larger gigs)

6. Slide is a young Romanian band, playing a mix of alternative rock and funk, with jazz and indie elements. Despite their short history they have an impressive live portfolio, having played many shows including some festivals.

7. Slide is a French trance artist.

8. Slide is a gabber/hardcore project by a German producer Andreas Hühn.

9. Slide was a (very) short-lived indie band in the mid-1990s, hailing from the small town of Joure, The Netherlands. Its frontman, Theo de Jong, enjoyed modest succes with his previous band, The Serenes. After the demise of The Serenes, he founded a new, short-lived band called Simmer. Simmer was initially called Slide. Under the Slide moniker the band released just one vinyl 7-inch single on Amsterdam's (also very short-lived) Electrolux record label. Slide moved on to become Simmer; Electrolux moved on to become Excelsior Recordings.

10. Swedish indie-rock duo. Their debut EP ‘Into Happiness’ released on March 8th, 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SLIDE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.