The Rapper/Songwriter Darrin Calhoun aka Slim Spitta is from Houston Texas(by way of Humble) looking to pursue a career in the music industry. He has been rapping since he was 15 and has stayed strong to the present. He loves to make music and enjoy the feeling of his fans singing along to the lyrics. He has been asked what is your style, and replies, no style but versatile. He is very dedicated and is sure to be the next up coming star, just as soon as the world hears what he has to offer to the game. The talent that he has can't be looked over because of the creativity and leadership that he possesses. The music industry is in a great transformation and he is very grateful to be experiencing this time. This is not just a time of oppurtunity but a time for those who really want it, to be able to go out and get it. His family moved from Sagemont Texas to Humble, where Slim discovered a brand new world of opportunity and skill. His parents worked 2 jobs to get their family into a bigger house and actually have some type of accomplishment that many in the Calhoun family have not experienced. He has witnessed actually coming from nothing to having a lot but still not enough. He has had to sit back and watch his parents grind and hustle in this world to get what they want and provide for their family of 6. “My only wish is to be able to provide for my parents like they did for me and watch them get a vacation instead of working their lives away”. Slim grew up with hustler in his blood and found a variety of ways 2 make money in his city. From pushing a lawn mower around the neighborhood to getting his first job at the age of 16, he has always been about making money. At the age of 18 after graduating high school Slim moved to Natchitoches Louisiana to attend college. His parent’s dream was to have all of their four kids graduate from college as they would be the first in the Calhoun family to accomplish that goal. Slim lived in the Natchitoches area for the last five years and has experienced a lot of inspiration from that town. “It's amazing how much you can learn from here”! While living in Natchitoches Slim went through a lot of ups and downs, from having problems with the law, to experiencing the life of a drug dealer, to almost losing his life multiple times! “I haven't always been the best person throughout my life, but i have learned from my mistakes and life experiences, and this is what i talk about in my music (life stories)”. Slim has mentioned that most of the things that he has been through has taught him a lot and he doesn’t regret a thing. Slim basically put himself through college with the help of loans and his parents, when they were able. Slim quotes that he has seen starving children and he once was a starving man! While he was at home with his parents he had a place to live and come home to dinner on the table, but once he moved away that all changed and it was only so much that his parents could help him with while living in Louisiana. In year(2008) Slim became the second person in his family to recieve a college degree. He has put alot of things on hold in life to reach this level and now its time for him to move on to the next chapter in an ongoing struggle to succeed. He has currently just moved back to the Houston area and will be fulltime pursuing his dreams of a music career. “It's kind of like moving to a new city because so much has changed in 5 years time, so who knows where i will end up next”. As the new year 2010 has come, Slim has dedicated 100% of his time to his life, which is music. This year is the year when the world will meet Slim Spitta. He has been through alot in his life and has an old soul at a young age. Meaning he’s far ahead of the people who really don't know what it means to grind and struggle in this world. “But I'm just trying to make everyone feel the music ya heard me... I'm coming so keep your eyes open”!!! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slim+Spitta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.