There is more than one artist with this name.

1) Sloth is doom metal band. Sloth, formed in mid 1999 from the ashes of London based riff rock act Godzilla.
Sloth was officially born in August and played their first show in the September of that year, supporting Spirit Caravan.

In January 2000 the band entered Backstage Studios (where Iron Monkey’s legacy was committed to tape). With Orange Goblin/Hangnail producer Dave Chang behind the desk, they recorded their first and only demo - 3 tracks of apocalyptic doom that, while tipping their hat to Black Sabbath and Sleep do not drown in the sea of pseudo 70’s stoner rock which dominates the current riff rock market. Rather, Sloth’s only aim was to record the heaviest doom & achieve the lowest bottom end possible. 

Almost instantly the band entered into negotiations with various labels and set about writing material that would complete their debut album.

The album "The Voice of God" which was recorded in July 2000, again produced by Dave Chang at Backstage, consists of 9 hymns of slow, low and superheavy lysergic doom. 

Following the album’s release in late 2000 Sloth has toured the UK with the likes of Orange Goblin, Goatsnake, Electric Wizard, Cathedral, Firebird and Bottom.

In July 2002 Vince left the band due to family commitments and was replaced by another former Mourn member Alan French. The new blood instilled a sense of fresh vigour into the band and after a few gigs to break him in, (including shows with Eyehategod, Orange Goblin and a Rise Above showcase in Stockholm with Electric Wizard, Grand Magus and Witchcraft), the band settled down to finally writing album two, which is still on hold.


---------------------


2 ) There's another Sloth from the United States, based in Ohio. It is essentially a one man project with other musicians joining in on some recordings. The US Sloth has done splits with Noothgrush, Corrupted, Floor, Angry Hate, Dot[.], Fistula, Cattlepress, Rwake, Shitstorm, CSMD, and many others. They've also released plenty of obscure limited releases on 7", CD, 12", tape, etc.

Sloth's music is primarily experimental sludge/stoner rock/doom but is definitely not limited to that as each release tends to sound like a different band.



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sloth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.