Members:
Sakke Paavola : Vocals, Guitars
Joonas Paananen : Guitars
Joonas Kiviniemi : Bass
Ville Halonen : Drums

The idea behind Slowmotion Downpour originates from S. Paavola (Reprisal 
Scars / Grudge Gorefister / Vuolla) whom had been keeping some of his more melancholic musical ideas at reserve, to be used when the harvest was at hand. 
In 2009 he presented the idea of forming a real band for the material to a band mate V. Halonen (Reprisal Scars / Grudge Gorefister) and the two proceeded to concieve first arrangements and versions of the song Verse I.

After many, many changes in the song structure, the idea of the song, and at the same time the musical lines of the forthcoming material started to take shape. During the summer 2010 there was an increasing urge to do something with the material which resulted booking some time at Studio Watercastle. At that time J. Paananen (Reprisal Scars / My Funeral) joined the group and the three quickly composed another tune imaginatively dubbed as Verse II.

So, with only two songs the EP Waiting For The Waves was recorded in the healthy lenght of 15 mins 25 secs. Actual recording went without any major hicups, and the final outcome was what had been aimed for. The next natural step for the band was of course playing some gigs, but therein laid the problem of the lower register. Enter J. Kiviniemi (Reprisal Scars / My Funeral), another former band mate and the cojones of the band Reprisal Scars.

When Kiviniemi joined the group the nucleon of the band was complete and ready to unleash its gospel of broken endings and sullen goodbyes to the world.

Since then the band has played few shows around Finland recieving positive feedback from crowds which of course has engouraged the band onward in its path. New material has also been worked on and will present more depressing undertow and aggressive emotional variations within the songs.

The New Descent has begun...



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slowmotion+Downpour">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.