1) Slut is a German indie rock band from Ingolstadt, Bavaria that sings in English (they only use German lyrics in their songs for the "Dreigroschenoper")).

The band was formed in 1995 by Christian Neuburger (vocals, guitar), Matthias Neuburger (drums), Rainer Schaller (guitar) and Gerd Rosenacker (bass guitar). After they had recorded their first album, René Arbeithuber (keyboard, vocals) joined.

From 1997 to 1998 they lived and recorded in a castle near Ingolstadt with René and Rainer's band, 'Pelzig'.

In February 2005 they took part in the Bundesvision Song Contest, playing their song 'Why Pourqoui?' They received few votes and finished twelfth out of sixteen competitors.

Slut was asked to do the musical support for an adaption of "Die Dreigroschenoper" (The Threepenny Opera) by the theater of Ingolstadt. After several successful showings they decided to record the whole music, but due to copyright problems (the Weill-Foundation holds the rights until 2020) Slut could only release an EP with 5 songs on it, including the popular song "Die Moritat von Mackie Messer"(Mack the Knife).

So far Slut is yet to appear live in Britain or the USA, despite several extensive European tours to Romania, The Czech Republic, Italy and France.

2) Second band called Slut was born in 1991. The band is from Prague (Czech Republic) and belongs to founders of Czech noise / hardcore.

Discography:
Sex Sucks (Scrape Sound, 1993)
Get Some Slut...Or Fuck Yourself (Scrape Sound, 1994)
Smell Me (PolyGram / Scrape Sound, 1996)
Luftganja (Indies Records, 1999)

Now they are preparing a new album.

3) A third band called Slut is actually an avant-garde collective of New York and Japanese musicians and improvisers, with a self-titled cd released in 1993 on God Mountain records. Musicians involve included Bradford Reed, Elliott Sharp, Zeena Parkins, Steve Ito, Acheilux, Marc Ribot, Jane Scarpntoni, Mark Anthony Thompson and Hoppy Kinayama. It's noteable for being one of the earliest cd's to feature the unusual acoustic sounds of Reed's invented pencillina instrument, and Acheilux's uniquely androgynous vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.