Slytract was established about May in 2005. Under the hands of Gabor B. Melegh (guitars/vox), Adam Heiner (bass) and Tamas Kozsup (drums) has came alive a beast, called Slytract. The first tracks were took their final form, and everything was all right. Officially, the band was established in 01.05.2005, because that was the first time they played their own songs.

In the middle of July, Tamas decided to leave the band. The new drummer was found rapidly and easilly, Tamas Galantay joined the band. After the warmup, Tamás learned the songs, and the first concerts were act to date. In march 2006, the band recorded their introduce-sample with 7 tracks. The record has attacked the local media - review of Metal Hammer etc..

The following 4-5 weeks were freetime for Slytract, because Gábor broke his leg. After a month, everything moved along, and changes were at the door. The most important is about Adam Heiner - he left the band, because he did not want to care with the future of slytract. Zoltan Csíki, Gabor's friend joined the band for a few week, but they could not make probes too often because Zoltán is living in a far city from Miskolc.

The following person was Viktor Jakab. The band takes a long time over new songs and concerts in their homeland and in foreign countries too. On the shows a session guitarist needed, would like to give the same music you can hear on the album.
In april 2007 the band made their second EP with 3 new songs with killer sound and with bigger Hate! In the year of 2008 the band signed to the austrian NoiseHeadRecords, and in February they recorded their debut album, which is called, Explanation:Unknown. By the way, the line-up had changed, 'cause Viktor Jakab couldn't continue as a member of the band, so the new bass player is Ákos Tuza. The album was released on 11.April.2008, on the CD there are 9 tracks by a mixing of thrash and death metal with technical features. Check it out Headbangers!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Slytract">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.