There are multiple artists named Small Hours:

1) Small Hours were a soul influenced English band who were active during the late 1970's and early 1980's mod revival scene. Formed in London 1978 by bassist Kym Bradshaw (ex-Lurkers / The Saints). The other members were brothers Neil Thompson (vocals) and Armand Thompson (guitar), Carol Isaacs (keyboards) and drummer Iain Shedden (ex-Jolt) and Dave Burke (drums). The group appeared on the Mods Mayday '79 album. They split up in 1981. 

2) Small Hours (aka The Small Hours) is a lo-fi indie project fronted by Thom James of Scarfboy fame. Not setting out any stall whatsoever, the aim of small hours is to work with as many or as little people as want to be involved to create something; anything. Nothing polished, or sugar-coated. Just raw songs, good or bad, one or two takes and that's it. The Small Hours started as a bedroom excercise for quick demoing of a back-catalogue of songs. Once 20 or so demos had been laid down in a few days, work began on crafting the songs but Thom found that too many of them had not fitted the idea or mould that he was looking for in terms of band songs, and too, couldn't seem to find any love for them under his Scarfboy moniker. But, the songs were litte gems in his eyes, and weren't to be discarded. Also, they were unlike any of his other songs; raw, edgy and different in terms of topic. Living away from home, frustrated with education and lack of band practice had seen to a new style of both sarcastic and lovetorn lyrics. So in early 2005 in Swansea, UK, The Small Hours were born.

3) Small Hours is an independent band from Toronto, Cananda. They released one album titled "Time's Running Out", and disbanded in 2003.

4) Small Hours is a HNW project dedicated to erecting walls in alien soundscapes. Bandcamp page: http://smallhours1.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Small+Hours">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.