There is more than one artist with this name:

1. Smokescreen - Alternative/sci fi rock band from Arizona
2. Smokescreen (UK) - Heavy Metal Band from Cambridgeshire, UK.
3. Smokescreen - Classic Rock band from Glasgow, UK

1) smokescreen is an alternative/sci fi rock band from Arizona. The band try to keep their music as original and different as possible, while maintaining a melodic and high energy feeling. The band send CDs free to anyone whom requests one, with postage paid.

The band's homepage: http://smokescreen.tv/


2) Coming to life in November 2001, Smokescreen consists of four guys who love playing, writing and living heavy metal. Having been through and overcome various line-up changes and challenges over the years, supporting bands such as Mendeed, Breed 77 and Raging Speedhorn and clocking up way over 100 gigs in the process, the bands love for playing honest and heavy music has always remained constant and undeterred, despite whatever trends have been and gone.

Having toured the UK extensively, self funded three EP’s, put out all their own merchandise/recordings and had no ‘proper’ management or label support since day one, the band have learned that sometimes you DO end up playing venues 100 miles away to one man and his dog and that you don’t always come out on top. All of this has contributed to opening the bands eyes to the very real business that is ‘the music business’ and made them appreciate it all a whole lot more!

Since forming, the band have had dozens of strong reviews from not only the UK press, but also Argentina, USA, France, Italy, Holland and Germany to name a few, also with much airplay and airwave exposure, particularly in South America. Not to mention personal airplay by none other than Iron Maiden’s Bruce Dickinson.

Starting out playing covers in quiet town pubs and clubs, to playing Corn Exchanges and bigger halls, to playing the Underworld in London and Rock City in Nottingham, along with Riverside festival to over 8,000 people, the band give it their all at every gig regardless of where it is or whatever the occasion and always perform their hearts out, with guitar squeals, thundering double bass drum, pounding bass and intense vocals galore. The band have just completed the summer’s ‘Art of Revolution’ UK tour, travelling over 1800 miles, playing 16 gigs covering most areas f the country, and headed back to Nottingham’s Rock City and The Underworld in London. Still unsigned and still going strong, look out for Smokescreen on tour near you very soon.

Taken from http://www.smokescreenweb.co.uk/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Smokescreen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.