Snail Mail is the American indie rock solo project of guitarist and singer-songwriter Lindsey Jordan. In 2015, she started playing her songs live with her band and released the EP Habit in 2016. Snail Mail's debut studio album, Lush, was released on June 8, 2018. Snail Mail's music is heavily guitar-inspired.

Lindsey Jordan released her self-recorded solo EP Sticki in 2015 and played several live shows with her new band as Snail Mail. She was joined by Ryan Vieira playing bass and Shawn Durham on the drums. After completing one short DIY tour in 2016, Jordan released the EP titled Habit on Sister Polygon Records, which gained traction after being featured on several major US music sites, and they signed with Ground Control Touring. Pitchfork added the EP's opening track "Thinning” to their Best New Track series.

Snail Mail, with bassist Alex Bass and drummer Ray Brown, toured North America extensively 2017 supporting Priests, Girlpool, Waxahatchee and Beach Fossils. Jordan signed with Matador Records in September 2017 and the group's debut full-length album Lush was released on June 8th, 2018. The Snail Mail band played their first headliner tour in the beginning of 2018.

In 2019, Habit was rereleased via Matador Records along with the song “The 2nd Most Beautiful Girl In The World”.

On November 5, 2021, Snail Mail released their second studio album, Valentine, via Matador Records. The album hit number 61 on US Billboard charts and number 35 on UK and Australian charts and it was nominated for two Libera awards in 2022.

On her 2018 debut album Lush, seventeen-year-old Lindsey Jordan sang “I’m in full control / I’m not lost / Even when it’s love / Even when it’s not”. Her natural ability to be many things at once resonated with a lot of people. The contradiction of confidence and vulnerability, power and delicacy, had the impact of a wrecking ball when put to tape. It was an impressive and unequivocal career-making moment for Jordan.

On Valentine, her sophomore album out November 5th on Matador, Lindsey solidifies and defines this trajectory in a blaze of glory. In 10 songs, written over 2019-2020 by Jordan alone, we are taken on an adrenalizing odyssey of genuine originality in an era in which “indie” music has been reduced to gentle, homogenous pop composed mostly by ghostwriters. Made with careful precision, Valentine shows an artist who has chosen to take her time. The reference points are broad and psychically stirring, while the lyrics build masterfully on the foundation set by Jordan’s first record to deliver a deeper understanding of heartbreak.

Current accompanying band
Alex Bass – bass
Ray Brown – drums
Benjamin Kaunitz - guitar, backing vocals 
Madeline McCormack - guitar, keyboards

Past members
Ryan Vieira – bass
Shawn Durham – drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Snail+Mail">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.