It should come as to no surprise to anyone fan of traditional heavy metal that there is a resurgence of a more occult-tinged type of traditional heavy metal, bearing a deep bluesy vibe and a slight stoner incline. Over the past few years, we’ve had Castle, Christian Mistress, Blood Ceremony and a bunch of others from all over the world. Of course, Sweden has had its share of the mother lode, with bands like Graveyard and Witchcraft being now quite well known and successful to a bigger scale. It is my pleasure to bring you another Swedish up-and-coming wonder:Snakeskin Angels.

The band is still quite young, having been active only since 2008. Their first demo came out in 2010 and actually consisted of all the songs present on Follow the Snake to the Core, their first official full-length album, which is nothing less than a full re-mix and re-mastering of this 8-song (plus one intro), 2010 demo. What perhaps is most notable about the band is its line-up, consisting of members of some notable Swedish bands. First, we have Kenneth “Thunderbolt” Gagner on vocals, better known for having been in Swordmaster, for the more extreme metal fans among you. Then we have Kalle “Graveyard” Pettersson and Daniel “DK” Kvist on drums and guitar respectively, both better known to some by being in melodic death metal band Taetre. This round of musicians is rounded up by second guitarist Grim Vindkall, a member of melodic doom band Nox Aurea (who brought us Ascending in Triumph, their terrific 2010 offering) as well as Gustaf “Kallbrand” Sundin, who hails from the black metal scene with his own band, Styggelse. So when you look at it, Snakeskin Angels is kind of an underground supergroup or sorts, given birth by these musicians and their desire to unite and bring us an occult heavy metal sound influenced by the late 60s/early 70s, dubbed “Luciferian rock n’ roll”.

The first recording was in 2012 re-mixed and re-mastered by Grim Vindkall to be released through Lake of Fire Productions.
SNAKESKIN ANGELS was formed in summer 2008 when Gothenburg-musicians from Swordmaster, Domgård/Nox Aurea, Taetre/Likblek/Styggelse unified in the idea to return to the roots of their musical origins and create some occult heavy metal, as it was in the good old days of the late 60's, 70's and early 80's. So prepare for some enchanting Luciferian rock n' roll!

The band signed a one record deal with Lake of Fire Productions in 2012. This for the release of ”Follow the Snake to the core” on Vinyl and CD.

The line-up includes members from Domgård, Taetre, Styggelse, Swordmaster etc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Snakeskin+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.