SNAX BIOGRAPHY 2007 by: Jonas Stone

From forming an imaginary band called J.P & The Writers at the tender age of 5 with his brother, multi-instrumentalist, performer and producer Snax, AKA Paul Bonomo, has been on somewhat of a musical journey ever since. His various guises have seen him play in high school funk bands in his native Maryland / Washington D.C., form gay art/punk band Fagbash in San Francisco, set up Bedroom Productions with Tara DeLong in New York, establish Captain Comatose with Khan in Berlin, play keyboards with the legendary Foetus, release several albums and 12 inches on esteemed labels such as Mental Groove, TNT, Playhouse, Get Physical and Suicide, and tour the world solo as well as opening for Jamie Lidell and The Scissor Sisters. 

After various travels that included a two and half year stint with Fagbash in San Francisco, Snax eventually found his way to New York’s East Village in 1995. Concentrating on his ‘DJ Snax’ alter ego, he began making house, hip-hop and whatever else took his fancy. A mix tape brought him to the attention of Tara DeLong and the pair set up Bedroom Productions creating original lo-fi hip hop, whilst Snax cultivated his new live persona. “I used to walk out of my apartment and feel like I was on stage,” comments Snax wryly of the time. 

It was here that a set of coincidences also led him to the doors of Khan, with whom he established the band Captain Comatose on the back of two highly rated albums on the Playhouse label, and Jim Thirlwell, who’s influential band Foetus he toured with as keyboardist throughout the states and Europe. “The US tour was pretty cool but the European tour was really cool!” recalls Snax. “It was right after 9/11 and George Bush and I just thought I gotta get out of here.” Having witnessed the blossoming and almost endless party scene in a very fertile and creative Berlin, his decision to distance himself from Mayor Giuliani’s draconian ‘zero tolerance’ crack down was easy. A decision he was soon to comment on the back of p-funk flavored rhythms with his first release for Mental Groove. The single ‘No Dancing,’ was infectious as hell and made for the sole purpose of exactly what it stood against. 

In 2004, the debut Snax album ‘From The Rocking Chair To The Stage’ followed. Based around a party; before, during and after, Snax’s message of rhythm and vox was clear for all to see, with iDJ calling him “an intuitive songwriter with a scalpel sharp sense of humour” whilst Vice raved “an awesome sing-a-long spectacular…A+ production and next level crooning.” A seven-month, one-man-show tour of Europe followed that winter and along the way, Snax collaborated with the likes of Jamie Lidell, Kaos, Shapemod, Ianeq, Mocky, Peaches and Soffy O.

Since Snax was always very influenced by the dynamic live music of Washington D.C.’s Go-Go scene, its no surprise that his shows are a mixture of provocation, sleaze and fun. He casts himself in the middle as prime minister of what has been dubbed “fist-funk,” and yet can still hit a falsetto high note without breaking strut. Sometimes referred to as an extravaganza, Snax’s live act is pure party energy with a fresh rock’n’roll attitude, uniting dance music head on with the crowd. 

Released in fall 2006 on TNT/Four Music, Snax’s second long-playing album ‘Love Pollution’ and the preceding 12” ‘Immer So’ further developed Snax’s song-writing skills with tales of heartbreak and liberation. “There’s a bit more of a story with ‘Love Pollution’” states Snax. “Its about love, loss, bitchiness and finally redemption. But it’s not only just about me. I try to make my songs universal but in a way I’m also reclaiming my own sanity.” With tracks featuring friends such as Gina V. D’orio from Cobra Killer, Halloween Jack, Tara DeLong, and even a little horn section courtesy of Jeff Davidson, the album transcends from electronics to more acoustic elements with consummate ease. So it’s no surprise that Snax formed a new live band, The Love Pollution, to tour this album with.

The past year, Snax performed everywhere from the US (supporting Jamie Lidell), to Europe, Istanbul and a winter swing through Australia. His most recent appearances have been as the support act for The Scissor Sisters during their Spring tour of Europe. Scissors front man Jake Shears concludes that Snax is a one man Fro Freak Show not to be missed. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Snax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.