There are 3 bands named Snowman.  

 *An ambient/tribal/noise 4-piece from Australia, now based in London. 
 * an audio-visual post-rock project from Poland.
 
SNOWMAN [Australia/London]

SNOWMAN is an ambient/tribal/noise 4-piece based in London. They originally formed in Perth, Australia in 2002. The lineup consists of Joseph McKee, Andy Citawarman, Olga Hermanniusson and Ross DiBlasio. 

Their sound has been described as tribal, hypnotic, futurist and mechanical.   Releases include their 2004 EP Zombies on the Airwaves of Paris, their self-titled debut album Snowman in 2006 and their critically acclaimed second album The Horse, The Rat And The Swan in 2008.

Snowman have recently relocated to London. Pitchfork Media gave The Horse, The Rat and The Swan an 8.0 review and placed it on it's 50 Best albums of 2008 Honourable mentions List. Read what they had to say here: http://www.pitchforkmedia.com/article/feature/147949-albums-of-the-year-honorable-mention?page=2

Source: www.thesnowmanempire.com and Wikipedia

SNOWMAN [PL]

A band from Poland, exists since the end of 2002, an audio-visual project: Snowman plays concerts with visuals; they have given about 60 gigs all over Poland and in Berlin, taken part with many Polish highlight performers in important festivals, such as: International Film Festival „One Minute”, Malta Festival – New Waves, Gdynia Summer Jazz Days, Union of Rock, Central European Festival of Alternative Music „Globalbeat”; Snowman supported concerts of Archive (UK) and Karate (USA); the band members, along with other artists, run a cultural association (Association For Young Artists V.I.T.R.I.O.L.), take part in many various cultural events (e.g.: music compositions for poetry meetings and exhibitions) and participate in a number of music projects; apart from their own creative compositions, Snowman composed music for “The shine through” (produced by The Association), for two etudes by Mariusz Suszek, a student of Polish Film School in Lodz and also for a silent film by F.W. Murnau “Nosferatu. Symphony of Horrors” for the 25th anniversary of Academic Discussion Film Club (Poznan University); the band cooperates intensively with an alternative theatre MOUTH TO MOUTH (soundtracks for “Driver”, “Cadillac”, “Alice 0 700 188 188”) playing live music that accompanies performances and plays staged for theatre festivals (Malta International Theatre Festival, Street Art International Festival); Snowman made also an impact on such events as prestigious Pilsner Urquell Summer Scene, International Film Festival “Europrowincjonalia” (with “Nosferatu”) and most recently have won The Young Polish Bands Festival (December 2005). In March 2006 in Stodola (Warsaw) Snowman will play as the guest star before Yann Tiersen. Currently the band is working on their first album.      

Their participation in a great variety of music events and also the reviews they get, which attempt at finding correspondences between the music they make and the one made by an extremely broad range of different artists, bear witness to the width of the music spectrum they can achieve and an original style that is so hard to define – a mixture of jazz, post-rock and electronics offering a warm sounding melody and at the same time either a little bit trans-like song or an instrumental composition with a characteristic trans-like theme.

3. Snow Man is a Japanese idol boy band formed by Johnny & Associates in 2012. 
Members
Hikaru Iwamoto (岩本 照, Iwamoto Hikaru) - Leader
Tatsuya Fukazawa (深澤 辰哉, Fukazawa Tatsuya)
Raul (ラウール, Rauru)
Shota Watanabe (渡辺 翔太, Watanabe Shōta)
Koji Mukai (向井 康二, Mukai Kōji)
Ryohei Abe (阿部 亮平, Abe Ryōhei)
Ren Meguro (目黒 蓮, Meguro Ren)
Ryota Miyadate (宮舘涼太, Miyadate Ryōta)
Daisuke Sakuma (佐久間大介, Sakuma Daisuke) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Snowman">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.