There is more than one artist with this name:
1. Canadian black metal band formed in 2001
2. Swedish indie-pop band formed in 2007
3. Italian post-hardcore band formed in 1996.

1. Canadian black metal band formed in 2001. Well known in eastern Canada for their reputation for violent live shows where band members would mutilate themselves with broken bottles and knives, and the band members would engage in heavy substance abuse. Their first album "Black Terror Art" had mixed reviews, some praising the release as a work of brilliance, some denouncing it as noise. Their second release "Death Triumphant" was recorded in 2004, but has yet to be released for reasons unknown. Snowfall has currently relocated to western Canada and is finishing their new album.

2. Snowfall started in January 2007 in Gothenburg by Daniel Sanne. He wanted a band that was built on hope, music that was based on feelings and lyrics that gave something back.
In the beginning he only had one song, but after a week of illness he was stranded in his small student corridor. It was only one thing to do. And only one thing that he wanted to do. And that was to play music. So a couple of days later he had a bunch of songs finished. He called some friends and together they recorded some of the songs during a beautiful autumn and winter. And the result was the EP “Sunrise & Sunset”, with six songs and a bonus single called "Leo", including two songs.
"My inspiration is everything around me, books, movies, music, my family and friends.”

3. Snowfall hail from Vicenza, Italy. Formed in 1996 from the ashes of hardcore band Think Twice, they play a post-hardcore in the vein of Quicksand. Their released their first self-titled 7" in 1997 on Green Records and after a break of over 10 years, released their first full length, Weight Less, in 2009 on Youth Crew Records.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Snowfall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.