Sobrusion began as a musical idea aimed at combining heavy metal guitars with strong melodic influences from various genres and cultures.
 
Since forming in the winter of 2005 in Wagga Wagga, Australia, the band has succesfully managed to create a sound, which has allowed for them to participate in events showcasing music from extreme death metal to traditional rock 'n' roll. The band, as a result, has gained a large fan base with very varied tastes in music owing to their willingness to experiment with their sound.
 
Their love for playing their music live is very evident in each of their shows. Their energetic live performances complimented by their individual talents seems to rub-off onto the audience creating an electrifying atmosphere.
 
After a number of hugely succesful shows and requests for CDs, the band, in mid 2006 decided to hit the studios and record. Their debut album "The First Embrace" was released on the 8th of December to a huge response. The CD launch saw them sell out of their entire first batch of CDs and pack the venue to its absolute limits.... and then some. The album has been receiving rave reviews locally from newspapers, TV and radio stations and fans, which has immensely helped with their popularity and following.
 
Sobrusion have since performed with some of Australia's most well known acts such as Something for Kate, Thirsty Merc and Mammal to name a few, and have also shared the stage with some of the world's most influential underground metal bands such as The Beserker, The Amenta, Ackercocke and Fleshgore.
 
For 2009, the band is currently scheduling more shows in towns and cities they have yet to visit and bring to them the music that is Sobrusion.
 
Find more about Sobrusion here:
 
http://www.sobrusion.net/
 
Information sourced from the Band's personal biography here:
Sobrusion <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sobrusion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.