Many moons ago (1995 to be exact) Social Infestation was born deep in the swamps of Georgia. The entity was massed from sludge, crust, grindcore, and blast beats. Upon recording their first demo, dubbed "Anarchy Kid", they found a disturbed crowd of people who were somehow entertained by the barrage of crust punk riffs and the overwhelming atmosphere that was forged from the $50 recording budget (that's not a typo, it's fifty). Shortly after, a couple of local psychopaths known as Goatlord Records, recorded and released a limited edition self titled 7". It was pressed on white vinyl and only 500 copies were ever produced. They have been spotted on eBay selling for as much as $8.00!! Social Infestation continued to play shows and tour the east coast. They've shared the stage with the likes of Damad, Phobia, Mastodon, Spazz, Buzzov•en, Weedeater, Neurosis, Speedealer, Cream Abdul Babar, Assück, Drop Dead, Disassociate, & Meatjack.

About a year and a half after the release of the 7", Social Infestation recorded and released their first full length, "Redemption Is Only Skin Deep... It's Time To Cut Deeper". Once again, this was a limited release. Only 1,000 CDs were pressed but mostly because that's all they could afford to press. It was distributed by Goatlord records and was instantly absorbed by the underground punk/grind scene. Redemption was followed up in 1999 by another official Goatlord Records release entitled "Lasciate Ogni Speranza". It is available on CD and 10". It gained tons of praise in zines like Terrorizer, Maximum Rock-n-Roll, and Profane Existence to name a few. These days, Social Infestation is a dormant monster waiting to be awakened. Troy is performing almost daily with his band Mastodon while Mike and Chris are playing together in a sinister grind/black act called Withered. Rumor has it that Social Infestation's 3rd full length is due in the not-so-distant future. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Social+Infestation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.