Formed in 2007 by the name of Parasite Eye, Mamvaluchi Aryun (Valy) invited Death Metal Drummer from West Jakarta, Aria who also played for Catastrophe. Then Valy invited Mahendra Brothers, Reza (Jaem) to be a vocalist who previously played for Hatred Memory as a guitarist and Yudha (Daem), Jaem’s cousin to be a bassist. For complement, then Valy invited one more guitarist named Fath. Then they changed the name to Social Black Yelling, according to the Valy’s description, the name was created by Daem because at that time, the President of Indonesia, SBY, was popular.

After a year, Fath resigned due to college clash. So Valy invited Bonii, who previously played for Hatred Memory. Their single, 13:10 had published and included in the compilation 'Barat Bersatu' (released by Valy himself) did not receive good applause. At that time, Social Black Yelling was not Thrash Metal yet. 

After the era of 'Barat Bersatu', Social Black Yelling recruited Dhani Bucay as a Additional Vocal because Jaem went to bandung to continue his college studies. Proceed with Bucay’s help, Social Black Yelling won a small festival in West Jakarta and played in small gigs, like Marotti, DejaVu, etc..

At the end of 2009, Jaem resigned and Bucay officially joined. SBY recorded their first single 'Il Principle' in Gedhang studio owned by DDCrow, ROXX guitarist (eventually the whole album was recorded there) and waged Thrash Metal genre officially

A few months later, Daem resigned because of college study in Bandung, followed his cousin, Jaem. So in this era, Social Black Yelling changed their Bassist frequently like Broto from Van Java, and Arab from Secondlife. After they were searching, they eventually recruited Catastrophe’s guitarist, Nizaro to be Social Black Yelling’s bassist.

In this era, Social Black Yelling succeed to release their 1st LP titled MANKIND UNDER CONDEMNATION under the label of Trengginas Record and got a pretty positive praise and achieved rating of 7 in CRUSHING Indie Magazine where Bimo Samyayogi as the editor. This album succed to bring Social Black Yelling was known as one of the young Trasher with their consistency brought fresh breeze for Indonesia Thrash Metal Scene . However, after almost 100% completed, Aria resigned and was replaced by Ragil, skinny drummer from West Jakarta. At launching time in Lumbung on June 4, 2011, this both drummer shared the stage, each of them played four songs on the album.

Social Black Yelling had penetrated two radios in Jakarta, they are MStri Radio, and OZ Radio. In Oz Radio they played On Air and acclaimed by OZ loyal audience. In January 2012, Nizaro officially resigned and made Social Black Yelling officially struggling with 4 young Thrasher with an additional bassist . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Social+Black+Yelling">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.