Sodoma rises in the middle 2003 intended to produce a raw, heavy sound of quality, influenced by bands like Death, Slayer, Medicine Death, Torture Squad, Shock, Cannibal Corpse and others. The band always go ahead with your music where themes like absolute vociferous hate, Lucifer's mantle and vengeful obsession, reflects the directions to criticize outside sickness aspects of human being bringing to the listeners words of destruction, chaos, blasphemy among all beings and itself.

Since the beginning, Persistence and Dedication walks side by side with the musical expression.

Sodoma did his first presentation on March 2004 at João Pessoa (Paraíba State - Brazil), in the great festival "Mormaço" with the following line up:

Daniel Hate: Vocals
Igor: Guitars
Adeilton Freitas: Bassguitar
Cláudio Oliveira: Drums

After this event, the lack of another guitarrist is felt. Several auditions they did and finally they find Thiago Lopes who starts like Rhythm/ Solo Guitar. Igor still plays lead guitar. Due to pleasant comments received of a considered local label "Skull Productions", they invite the band to relevant presentation in Sodoma's history. Sodoma opens a Funeratus concert, one of the biggest brazilian Extreme Death Metal exponents. From here to forth Sodoma was played in several underground sceneries and with bands like: Torture Squad, Distraught and Malefactor.

With departure of one guitar player, Sodoma changes again his line-up to:

Daniel Hate: Vocals
Thiago Lopes: Guitar
Wagner Moura: Guitar
Adeilton Freitas: Bassguitar
Cláudio Oliveira: Drums

With this line-up they release your first Demo CD entitled Sadomazocristo. Beyond the releasing agrees of a Demo CD, Sodoma are really optimist with metal scene in general because great bands are emerging from Brazilian Northeast Region and becoming reference to brazilian metal.

English Version to official biography found on Sodoma's Official Website.

Links: 
::: http://www.sodoma.cjb.net/ :::
::: http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=54621 ::: <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sodoma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.