There are several artists named Soho:

1. Soho was a short-lived New York collaboration between Pal Joey and Reynald "CFM" Deschamps. Soho recorded a few well-known dance-tracks—most notably—1989's Hot Music on Reynald's Kool Groove Records.
http://www.discogs.com/artist/Soho

2. The better known act Soho is a pop trio from England, consisting of the sisters, Jacqueline (Jacqui) Soho and Pauline Soho, with Timothy London. Other members of the group over the years have been Dukie D (original programmer and electro-visionary), Liam Gillick (now a well known artist - Liam added live bites from vinyl at early gigs), Eds Chesters (now of The Bluetones), Leigh Gorman (ex Bow Wow Wow) and Barry Smith (of art school pranksters Add N To X). Also, for a while, Bob and Henry Morris who previously played with the trio when they were known as Groovalax.

The group is known for their 1990 hit song "Hippy Chick" (composed by Timothy London), which was a Top 20 Billboard Hot 100 chart hit in the U.S. and a Top 10 hit single in the UK Singles Chart. The song was a blues which featured a sample from The Smiths' recording "How Soon Is Now?" sequenced over the famous Soul To Soul rhythm. The lyrics told the story of a woman confronting her policeman ex-lover after being arrested.

Previous to the release of Hippychick, Soho recorded three LPs for HEDD/Virgin Records, although only one, Noise, suffering from classic 80s cocaine influenced production, was released.

Subsequently, Soho released two LPs on Savage/ATCO: Goddess and, in the USA only, Thug. Goddess is an end of decade pop classic, using sampled breaks and guitars to create a unique hybrid of contemporary dance and psychedelic soul. Thug, a darker affair, nevertheless contained some pop gems amongst the slightly apocalyptic songs, dealing with subjects such as political deceit, the Nation Of Islam and DEATH.

In 1994 Soho signed to Magnet/Warners on the strength of two self financed LPs, recorded after Savage Records folded in mysterious circumstances. The LPs (Oosh and Yard) remain unreleased.

More recently, they performed a cover version of the Icicle Works hit "Birds Fly (Whisper to a Scream)" for the soundtrack of the movie Scream.

Jacqui & Pauline also sang in a band called Copenhagen, (whose first LP, Tales Of The Forest, Tim produced). Timothy London relased two albums and several singles & EPs as Yossarian. These are available on Soul Jazz records - www.soundsoftheuniverse.com. Jacqui & Tim had a daughter called Charlotte B.C, born in 1993, in London. Their whereabouts at present are not known.

3. Soho is also dance/trance project of Jaco Van Rijkswik & Terri Bjerre. Silver Blue Lady and Feel What You Want (remake of the single of Kristine W) are their biggest successes.

4. Soho is also a lo-fi hip hop producer from Arizona, USA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soho">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.