Sol Gabetta 
Violoncello

“Her presence on stage is powerfully intoxicating; with her instrument she seems to be deeply bonded.” Neue Zürcher Zeitung, January 2004

Born of Russian-French parents in Cordoba, Argentina in 1981 the charismatic cellist Sol Gabetta is forging an impressive career; she has a recording contract with Sony, is the Director of her own festival, and has invitations all over the world, following on from winning some major awards.

In 2004 Sol Gabetta was awarded the prestigious Credit Suisse Young Artist Award, which was celebrated by a concert with the Vienna Philharmonic under the baton of Valery Gergiev performing Shostakovich at the 2004 Lucerne Festival.

In Summer 2006 Sol Gabetta’s debut disc for Sony with the Munich Radio Orchestra, under the baton of Ari Rasilainen of the works of Tchaikovsky and Ginastera was released.

The 2006/07 season has opened with Sol Gabetta making her debut in Finland with the Tampere Philharmonic and its’ Chief Conductor, John Storgårds . Sol Gabetta is also soloist with the Rotterdam Philharmonic and Leonard Slatkin, the National Orchestra of Spain both in Barcelona and subsequently on a tour of Germany taking in concerts in Cologne, Frankfurt, Hannover, Dusseldorf and Bielefeld under the direction of Joseph Pons, and the Bern Symphony Orchestra with Andrei Boreyko. Sol Gabetta makes her London concerto debut with the London Chamber Orchestra with Christopher Warren Green, and further performs with the BBC National Orchestra of Wales, the Hallé Orchestra with André de Ridder, as well as attending the Manchester Cello Festival in Spring 2007 at the invitation of its’ director, Ralph Kirshbaum 

In 2006/07 Sol Gabetta gives her recital debuts with the pianist Henri Sigfridsson in Japan. In Europe she also performs with him in Rome, Bergamo, Padova, Milan and joined by the violinist Patrizia Kopatchinskaja they join for chamber music performances in Vienna, Paris, Ludwigsburg. This year Gabetta launched her own festival, “Solsberg”, held in Olsberg (near Basel). 

Sol Gabetta has also performed with the Orchestre National de Radio France, the Kremerata Baltica, the Vienna Kammerphilharmonie and Vienna Symphony Orchestra (the latter in Vienna’s Musikverein), the St. Petersburg Symphony Orchestra, the Munich Chamber Orchestra under Christoph Poppen, the Basler Chamber Orchestra under Christopher Hogwood, the Basel Symphony Orchestra, the Philharmonic Orchestra of Buenos Aires and with the Prague Symphony at the Interlakener Musikfestwochen. Sol Gabetta has participated in Gidon Kremer’s "Les muséiques" Festival in Basel several times.

As a young artist Sol Gabetta won an award from Radio Suisse Romande in Geneva, the Natalia Gutmann Award for best musical interpretation in the Tchaikovsky competition in Moscow and in 2004 was awarded a a fellowship from the Borletti-Buitoni Trust. Sol Gabetta finished her studies with David Geringas at the Musikhochschule Hanns Eisler in Berlin with the “Konzertexamen” in Spring 2006. From 1992 to 1994 she was a scholarship student at the "Escuela Superior de Musica Reina Sofia" in Madrid. She subsequently studied with Ivan Monighetti in the Musikakademie Basel, Switzerland. 

By a generous scholarship of Hans K Rahn Sol Gabetta plays a cello by G.B Guadagnini, 1759. Since October 2005 she has been teaching at the Musik Akademie Basel.  


www.solgabetta.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sol+Gabetta">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.