Solbrud is a black metal band from Copenhagen, Denmark. 

The foundation of Solbrud began taking shape in mid-2009 as the three remnants of a short-lived thrash-punk band: Brothers Troels and Tobias Hjorth and Adrian Utzon Dietz started rehearsing in Ungdomshuset(the new youth house) in the outskirts of Copenhagen.
 
From the beginning the aim has been to coalesce melodic and evocative compositions in a raw, storm-like expression; a sound generally achieved by coupling unrelenting drumming with harmony and chord-based riffing through an array of effects, creating an intense and atmospheric soundscape ― or in short: Black metal.
 
After about a year of sound and line-up experimentation, Solbrud found it’s missing fourth element in the form of vocalist and guitarist Ole Luk, whose danish lyrics ‒ delivered exclusively as hoarse shrieks ‒ serves to complete the heathen and rebellious nature of the music.
 
Throughout the first half of 2011 Solbrud recorded their self-titled debut album, alongside the first handful of local live performances. The record was tracked in the rehearsal space, mixed Lasse Eriksen and released on April 2nd 2012 through Euphonious Records/VME.
 
Besides having played at Copenhell 2011, Morbid Catacombs Fest 2012 and Roskilde Festival 2013, Solbrud has shared stage with a number of foreign names such as Absu, Alcest, Ludicra and Nadja. In November 2013, Solbrud teamed up with By The Patient and Helhorse for 9 shows around Denmark on the Headbangers Ball tour.
 
Following album was named  ‘Jærtegn’. Both albums and the quartet’s emotional and intense live performances have since then consolidated Solbrud as a band with a special, artistic vision unfolding in non-compromising and boundary pushing black metal.

Solbrud’s new album ‘Vemod’ draws from the longing, melodic approach, that signifies the debut album, along with the infernal drive and complexity of the sequel. On ‘Vemod’, Solbrud has cultivated their unique approach to songwriting even further and added new elements in both composition and instrumentation. The focus on melody is emphasized and the listener encounters a band which through working with complex arrangements simultaneously challenges and pays respect to the proud traditions of the genre.

As the previous album ‘Jærtegn’, ‘Vemod’ is recorded with producer Lasse Ballade (Slægt, Orm, Halshug) in his Ballade Studios in Copenhagen, this time during a freezing January 2017. In addition, the legendary Flemming Rasmussen (Metallica, Morbid Angel, Rainbow) has overseen the mastering in Sweet Silence North, where the album received an old school tape mastering, which only enhances the band’s analogue and organic sound <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solbrud">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.