There are three artists by the name of Solemn.

1.
恕 (Solemn) is a Taiwanese Metal band from Tainan, founded in 2003. Their musical style combines elements of Metalcore, Melodic Death Metal and Thrash Metal. Their label is Ultimate Music.

In their first releases, the band used the English name Shoo, in the 2009 album The Road to Reform they used the name Solemn for the first time. The first album had a sound combining Metalcore and Melodeath elements. In the following years the band had gigs all over Taiwan and became one of the most famous Metal bands in the country.
In 2011 drummer Coolio was replaced by Shiauyu, often called 'drum goddess' by the band. In 2012 vocalist Wendy left the band and was later replaced by Evelyn Tofu in 2013. The 2014 album Devastated Ruins entered new paths and left the band's Metalcore roots. The style is more fast and feature Thrash Metal riffs, but still has a modern sound with both, clear and harsh female vocals. At the same day, the acoustic album Krumlov Winters was released, featuring acoustic versions of the first and second albums. After the album releases, a tour through Taiwan and Japan followed.

Members:
豆腐 Evelyn Tofu - vocals (since 2013)
阿文 Zac Shen - guitar
小黑 Black - guitar
小睿 Ray Wu - bass
小鈺 Shiauyu - drums (since 2011)

Discography:
2006 - Catch this Mad Feeling (EP)
2006 - SHOO (EP)
2009 - The Road to Reform
2014 - Devastated Ruins
2014 - Krumlov Winters (Acoustic album)

2.
Solemn was an American Old School Death Metal band that was active in the first half of the nineties. One of their ex-drummers was Jon Brody known from Incantation and Deteriorot.

Rob is the founder of Elegy Records.

The band shared rehearsal space/equipment with Incantation in Passaic, New Jersey. This is where the live tracks on Asaru Brethren were recorded.

The band released one demo and an EP.

3.
Solemn is a singer-songwriter-duo consisting of two guitars, a man’s and a woman’s voice that combine to soft and melancholic as well as straight-forward driving rock music with catchy melodies. With so many artists trying hard to be unique and overpowering, Solemn prefers a more genuine, intimate style – brought to those who enjoy getting carried away by the music rather than consuming it.

Oliver and Nina joined together in the summer of 2005 in Los Angeles where they not only shared living abroad, some shatterd dreams, unfinished tattoos and going to the same boxing club, but also a great amount of ideas and songs just waiting to evolve. While Nina used to front an alternative rock band called 69 Chambers, Oliver had been playing on his own for some time. In experimenting with each other’s material and keeping it simple with a basic guitar-and-vocals line-up, they felt their music growing into something bigger, more complete. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solemn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.