Formed in September of 2001, the gothic metal band from the Nehtherlands consists Lydwin van Rooyen (female vocals), Roel Hoppenbrouwers (male vocals), Cyriel Waasdorp (guitar), Roeland (guitar), Tim (bass), David (keyboards), Cor Julie (drums). Vocalist Roel Hoppenbrouwers, bassist Tim and keyboard player David were all previously members of Black Metal band POSTMORTEM FABULAE. Solemnus issued their demo album 'A Nightshade Symphony' the following year, which remains the only one album released by them, because shortly after it came out the band split-up.

Band has apparently reformed in 2008 with new male and female vocalists.

new updates on SolemnuS

In 1999 a group of musicians came together and rehearsed with enthousiasm and dedication to make beautiful and creative music. They used several styles from the metal genre to create an interesting blend of influences which combined became the 'Atmospheric Metal'-genre. With heavy guitar-riffs and melodic keyboards they really put some great songs together, using the influence of Black-, Melodic-, Death-, Doom-, Power-, Gothic-, Symphonic- and Progressive-Metal and classical music. In 2000 the seven-headed formation named their band and SolemnuS was born. 

Late 2000 SolemnuS was ready to perform and gave their first show. Their audience gave a tremendous good response and gave the band the courage and inspiration to go into the land to perform. After a couple of great shows they made plans to make a demo. Late 2001 they went into the Pop-Ei studio and created "A Nightshade Symphony", which they released in 2002. They made 2000 copies and started to sell it through several shops and at venues they played at. Also they put the songs up the internet and became known all over the world. Internet-Radioshows were playing the songs regularly and gave SolemnuS a fanbase which overthrew any expectation the band ever thought of. They've managed to sell every copy of the demo. Oak-Knoll Records was interested to feature the demo on a split-cd that is still for sale throughout the world. 

Due to issues amongst the members SolemnuS had to split-up in 2004. After a long while Roeland and Cor had some thoughts of starting over again. After a couple of meetings they decided to get things moving and searched for musicians to revive the spirit of SolemnuS. In 2008 the new line-up is made. but due to a vary of circumstances they had to regroup.

now 2010 tha band is more stable then ever before.
The band also stopped searching for a keyboardplayer, those parts are now played by the guitarists.
Solemnus is back to conquer the world once more!

Line-up

Joyce Veen - Female vocals
Cor Jolie - Drums , composer
Roeland Scheepens - Lead guitar , composer
Patrick Veen - Bass , Grunts
Irene van Leusden - rhytm guitar
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solemnus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.