There are 3 Bands named Solid.

1. Solid are a Portuguese Hardcore band. 
Members:
 .Guitar/Back Vocals - Cláudio
 .Bass/Back Vocals - André
 .Guitar - Ricardo
 .Drums - Mapelo
 .Synth - Teófilo


2.Solid is a band from Jena, Germany which started as a crossover band but soon changed their sounds into a wider range of indie, emo and rock.

Members:
- Christoph (vocals, guitar)
- Carsten (guitar, vocals)
- Jule (bass, vocals)
- Sam (drums)

Former Members:
- Beck (1999-2002)

The band was formed in 1999 by Christoph (vox, g), Carsten (g, vox) and bassist Beck. Drummer Sam joined them later on that year.
The first record "Collecting People" was recorded and released in 2001 and contained 9 songs which can be described as a mixture of rock and pop.
In early 2002 Beck left the band and was replaced by Jule who also introduced rougher sounds to the band.
They recorded their second album "Sex, Bucks or Rock'n'Roll" which came out in 2003. In addition to 10 regular tracks a bonus track was added which was the result of a feature with Rapper Doppel-U and several thuringian Hip Hop artists. This collab also brought up the track "Schrei!" ("Scream!") off the same album.
In 2007 the third record called "Fishbowl Memories" was published which is also being distributed digitally by "Motor Digital" on the internet. The album features 9 tracks and 2 videos: "Make you heal" was shot by the band itself; the video "Rhyme me" (for the song "Rhyme me" off the 2nd album) was produced professionally in 2004 and reached #1 at the "Animago Awards".

3. Solid was a hardcore band from Belgium, H8000 area .

4. There is also the Christian rapper, Solid.

5. Solid was a Freestyle Girl Group who were signed to MicMac Records and had the hit "Loving You" in 1988.

6. Solid is an alternative rock band from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, formed in 2013. They released an EP "Emergência" in 2014 and are releasing a full-lenght in 2019. https://soundcloud.com/bandasolid <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.