During winter 2000, the musicians of the group Magic Power (M.A.P.O.) , meet in their recording studio for the composition and the arrangement of their last work that they call “If only”. 

After working a few months, and seeing their cd published,  M.A.P.O. decide to take a creative break, and they use the time before the summer tour, for their individual study.  Brian Maillard (Guitar), Riccardo Atzeni (Bass guitar) and Yan Maillard (Drums),  take advantage of this period in order to put together an alternative repertory, oriented towards particularly binding songs, either to improve their technique, or to improve their harmony. 

Among the covers of the instrumental trio, several of the most famous songs of the American band "Dream Theater" can be listened, for instance :"Overture 1928", "The dance of eternity", but also passages like "Paradigm shift", "Kindred spirits", "Universal mind", taken from the cd of J.Petrucci & Co. "Liquid Tension Experiment I & II" (from which the boys got the idea to call themselves in rhyme "Solid Session III" ). 

In order to complete the treatment, they choose covers of other great masters among which Steve Vai, Gregg Bisonette, Rush and Lobotomis, without  neglecting Metallica and the DeepPurple whose songs are proposed by the band in an interesting medley. 

When  the tour of the two bands - thanks to what Yan Maillard becomes ENDORSER of the labels "UFIP" , and "DEMO PROMOTER TAMA"- were finished, in "Solid Session III" feels like making their performance more interesting, and this by changing a bit more the treatment, in order to make place to some sang passages. 

The singer chosen is Samuele Pintus, and his versatility and remarkable vocal extension let the group have a  broad choice in the renewal of the repertory. When they complete the choice of the songs,  the "Solid Session IV" start their 2002-2003 tour, and besides they continue to compose  their own songs. In the same period, after some auditions, they chose the fifth member of the band, Americo Rigoldi , who shows to have all the requested skills, and also to get used very easily to the group and its harmony.

After that, the band decide to find a new name. In order to not totally erase the previous name and logo, they keep the word “Solid”, and change the Roman number V(5) , put after the name to indicate the number of the members of the band. The result is Solid Vision , that means either “strong determination” or “vision”, a dream that comes true. For Solid Vision, it's the right moment to present their own songs to the audience, that is getting bigger and bigger. 

They take part to the I-tim tour 2003, organized by Rock TV , they win the stage of Cagliari, that take them to an exhibition in Duomo's Square in Milan , and to several request of participation in T.V. programs and concerts. 

While having concerts, they also continue to compose their own songs, rearranging and recording all the material of demo cd.  Besides, the band is asked to participate as local guest band to one of the Italian dates of the Helloween, and the Children of Bodom. 

The first official disc is called "Eleven" (11), a number that has marked several steps of the Solid Vision's birth. Since a few months, thanks the various public exhibitions of their band, Brian Maillard and Riccardo Atzeni, have got the "Ibanez" endorsement. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solid+Vision">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.