Progressive, experimental, avant-gardist metal from Quebec, Canada
facebook reverbnation bandcamp
Location: Québec, Canada
Genre: avant-garde progressive metal technical death metal jazz
Label: Unsigned

Band
Eric Labrie (Kalte Traurigkeit): Vocal and keys
Bernard Giroux: Acoustic guitars and solos
J-D Villeneuve (Deviant Process): Electric guitars and solos
Jonathan Piché (Dedicated Sound): Fretless bass
Lucas Biron (Kälter, Nordheim): Drum


BIO
Solinaris is a band formed in 2010 by Éric Labrie (From Kalte Traurigkeit and ex-member of Lamentations – tribute band to Opeth) and Bernard Giroux, both long-standing friends from Quebec City who had once worked together on another musical venture. From the beginning, Solinaris’ goal is quite simple: to blend the most genres possible so as to distinguish itself among other Rock and Metal bands. To achieve its goal, Solinaris had to seek out high quality musicians from the Quebec City Metal scene. Solinaris’ sound arose by blending elements from Technical Death, Avant-Garde and Progressive music as well as Rock, Blues, Jazz, Classical music and other genres. 

Having finished writing their songs, which took a long while, Solinaris began to look for session musicians to help the band recreate on recording the mood conveyed by its compositions. Jean-Daniel Villeneuve (From Deviant Process), Lucas Biron (From Kälter and Nordheim) and Jonathan Piché (From Dedicated Sound – tribute band to Pink Floyd) were invited to contribute to the recording and fine-tuning of Deranged, Solinaris’ first album. Everyone brought to the recording his own personal touch, inspiration and, above all else, his own talent, helping to turn Deranged into a very complex, brutal and avant-garde concept album. Deranged is set to be released around the Winter of 2014. The album was recorded and produced at Quebec City’s Soundtronic Studio. 

Solinaris allows talented musicians and artists from the Rock and Metal scenes to exhibit their talent and, most of all, their brutality…  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solinaris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.