Preston, Lancashire, United Kingdom (1994 - present)

https://www.facebook.com/Offical.Solitary

Solitary are a English thrash metal band from Preston, Lancashire.  The band is composed of Richard Sherrington (lead vocals, rhythm guitar) Andrew Mellor (lead guitar) David Cunningham (bass guitar, backing vocals) and Roy Miller (drums, percussion).

Solitary formed in 1994 and signed to UK label Holier Than Thou Records in 1997, they made their first appearance on the HTT compilation “Genetically Fresh” which attracted interest from the JMG Agency who lined up support slots with Kill 2 This, Reign and Deranged from Sweden. May the following year Solitary record “Nothing Changes” Solitary then embarked on two UK tours to promote the album, which was released in November 1998.

2008 saw the return of Solitary signed to Corpro Records and releasing a new album “Requiem”, over a four-year period fraught with personal highs and lows the band and created a Thrash Metal Monster with a heavier direction and more gritty vocals. “Requiem” contains a guest vocal appearance from Chris Astley of 80’s Thrashers Xentrix on the track “Hatred” the release also has cover of Testament’s “Into the Pit”.

2012 after a successful uk tour covering the big 4 ( Metallica, Anthrax, Slayer and Megadeth ) Solitary have began writing there untitled third album to be released sometime early 2013.

-------------- There are also other bands who use the name Solitary ----------

a progressive metal and rock band from Germany. 

I. The music
With their music SOLITARY demonstrate that catchy, atmospheric melodies and complex and technically demanding song structures and arrangements are not mutually exclusive. SOLITARY are loosely geared to the Progressive Rock and Metal genre in which music is subject to a constant process of evolution. Due to each band member’s different influences SOLITARY’s music is very manifold and features characteristics of many genres, giving the band that special individuality without copying other bands.


II. Brief bio
In early 2002, David Jäckle, Markus Degenhardt and Andres Kesberg decided to form a band.
After finding a drummer (Sebastian Luther) and a singer/bass player (Martin Moser), the band THE LIMPETS was founded.
They started as a coverband playing popular rock/metal songs, but these commencements were quickly left behind. It didnt take long until they published their first release: “The Thin Red Line”. This punk rock CD represents the band’s mood at this time and it was a success in nearby region. Due to their CD and regular shows, THE LIMPETS built up a remarkably big audience with loyal fans.

Despite their success a musical recommencement was dared, this was the end of THE LIMPETS. In the end of 2004 THE LIMPETS were consigned to history and SOLITARY was born.
The line up was not changed, but Marin Moser devoted himself completely to the vocals, Andreas Kesberg took over his part as a bass player and Markus Degenhardt took over the keyboard part for good.
Since then SOLITARY has provided the best background for each band member to develop their concepts of music.
SOLIATRY’s style is loosely based on the progressive rock- and metal style. Within itself the musical appearance succumbs a constant, never ending process.
The SOLITARY-EP represents a retrospectation and a snap-shot of this constant process.

Band-Members:
Vocals - Martin Moser
Guitar - David Jäckle
Keyboard - Markus Degenhardt
Bass - Andreas Kesberg
Drums - Sebastian Luther

3. a melodic death metal band from Israel.

4. an emo/metalcore band based in Bydgoszcz, Poland. They`ve relased their DIY LP “When Was The Last Time You Looked At Your Soul” in 2002.

5, a Gothic/Doom Metal band based in Ełk, Poland.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solitary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.