Based in Dayton Ohio, Solidification was formed by brothers Phil and Paul Good in 1998. The goal of Solidification is to emphasize musicianship by creating a matched intensity between the instruments and to constantly raise the bar in technical skills and extremities...After several line-up changes "Sworn to Vengeance" was recorded and released in 2003 as a self produced and financed full length record. It marked the introduction of Solidification to it's world-wide fan base and was the catalist that landed them on the american death fest circuit. Unfortunately soon after it's release longtime friend/singer Byron Rehmert and Longtime friend/drummer Mike Dyer permanetely left the band to pursue other interests. This caused a forced line-up change which led to the introduction of longtime friend/drummer Dj France into the drum position. Along with michigan native Mike Bradley on vocals Solidification recorded and released their second full length album "Vendetta Driven" in the summer of 2005. Welcomed by their fans and gaining the respect of their peers It marked the evolution of Solidification into a national U.S. metal band as they toured in support of it. Later that year singer Mike Bradley was replaced by longtime friend/singer Sean Davis whose vocal range and lyrical themes reconnected the band to its core ideology. In 2006, Solidification embarked on a string of U.S. festival appearances and performed (Shortly) as part of the Annihilation Of The Population Tour in the summer. The rest of 2006 saw various members working on outside projects as well as continuing Solidification. Most recently they have added friend/Guitarist Mike Shreves into the fold, who's technical skills and approach to musicianship sets him apart from the rest. Together they are currently working on the completion of their highly anticipated yet to be titled third release which will be released in 2007. Solidificaton has always been a fan first band and will continue to be so indefinitely. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solidification">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.