There are many bands named Solstice: 1) Epic doom metal band from Bradford, UK. 2) 80s prog rock from Milton Keynes, UK. 3) 90s death/thrash metal, US. 4) Dutch death doom metal band. 5) Female a cappella group, US. 6) Folk group from New Zealand. 7) Belgian alternative rock band.

1) Solstice is an epic doom metal band from Bradford, UK formed in 1990, and currently signed to the Miskatonic Foundation, which the founding guitarist, Rich Walker is in charge of, the Miskatonic Foundation, which has released CDs by Twisted Tower Dire, Ritual Steel, Ironsword, amongst others. Since formation, they are active to this day and have released two full-length albums, numerous demos, two EPs and have also contributed to 3 splits. Their music can be compared to Candlemass, Solitude Aeturnus, Atlantean Kodex, While Heaven Wept and Scald. 

2) Solstice is a progressive rock band from Milton Keynes, England and part of the '80s progressive revival in the UK. Similar in style to such bands as Marillion, Twelfth Night, Pendragon, and IQ, they released four studio albums: "Silent Dance" ('84), "New Life" ('93), "Circles" ('96), "Spirit" (2010); a live album, and a compilation. Their first three studio albums and were remastered and reissued with bonus tracks as 'Definitive Editions' in 2007. "The Cropredy Set" (live) was also re-released as a CD+DVD set.

3) Solstice is a death / thrash metal band from USA, formed in 1990 and signed to Steamhammer Records. They split-up for some time following their 1995 release "Pray", but have recently reformed. Rob Barrett (of Cannibal Corpse fame) was once a guitarist in the band. Features renowned death metal drummer Alex Marquez (Malevolent Creation) on drums.

4) Solstice was a death doom metal band from Warnsveld, Netherlands, formed in 1992. Released two demos, and one EP titled "An Era of Weary Virtues".

5) Solstice is an a cappella group of women who are students at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, OH, USA. They preform a variety of pop arrangements and have one album, "Awesomeness".

6) Solstice is a folk group from New Zealand, led by Pat Higgins and featuring Mark Pearson and Tracey Weymyss. Solstice has evolved from Pat’s 2010 CD, “What You See is Not Your Own”. Drawing on Pat’s song-writing as well as material gleaned from folk, alt-country, jazz and blues, the music is infused by the Irish tradition.

7) Solstice is a rock band from USA, earlier named Plainsong, formed by Lori Lee (vocals and piano), Dylan Bulloch (guitar), Rohit Mittal (drums) and Scott Weiss (bass). They have done a good cover of The Cranberries' "Zombie", but they also make their own songs.

8) Solstice is an alternative rock band from Aarschot and Hasselt, Belgium. They formed in 2012 and released their self-titled debut EP on the 21st of December 2012 through Thanks But No Thanks Records.

9) Juan Vilchez, better known as Solstice is a hardstyle artist from Spain. He started releasing in 2015 and is the future of melodic hardstyle. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solstice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.