Solus is a name used by multiple groups.
01) Solus was a Hungarian black metal band, founded in 2006 by D. He released an EP titled "Screams from the Silent Forest" in 2009, a split with Burial Mist titled "Odes to Death" in 2010, and a demo titled "Night Oblivion" later in the same year. Changed the name to Hamvak in 2015.
03) Solus is the production alias of Matt Coogan. He began his journey with Upstairs Recordings in 2002 with the track 'Red Lights' on the acclaimed Blue Light One Compilation. A largely self-taught mixer/recorder who's beginnings trace back to jamming in rock, funk, and improv bands around the Philadelphia area. He turned to the sounds and structures of contemporary based electronic music in the late 90s to achieve autonomous expression. Solus' music is strummed and recorded out of a home base studio on a number of instruments, including guitar, sampler, drums, and wurlitzer. He exploits modern technology to make compositions inspired by past styles, such as 70s funk, dub, rock, hiphop. more here: http://www.upstairsrecordings.com

02) Solus were a 90s death/thrash metal band from Canada. The band's final line-up consisted of Neal Busby on drums, Jon Fenton on Bass, Derek Harnanansingh on guitar, and Will Korbut on vocals. Drums were previously done by Doug Regan. They released two studio albums (Slave of Mind in 1996, Universal Bloodshed in 1999) and an EP (Our Frosting Hell in 1998). They also released the track "Defensive Personalities" on Tribute to Death-Compilation 'Demonic Plague' by Dwell Records in 1999.

03) Solus is the production alias of Matt Coogan. He began his journey with Upstairs Recordings in 2002 with the track 'Red Lights' on the acclaimed Blue Light One Compilation. A largely self-taught mixer/recorder who's beginnings trace back to jamming in rock, funk, and improv bands around the Philadelphia area. He turned to the sounds and structures of contemporary based electronic music in the late 90s to achieve autonomous expression. Solus' music is strummed and recorded out of a home base studio on a number of instruments, including guitar, sampler, drums, and wurlitzer. He exploits modern technology to make compositions inspired by past styles, such as 70s funk, dub, rock, hiphop. more here: http://www.upstairsrecordings.com



04) Solus is an instrumental Post-Rock/Metal project started in mid 2012.

05) Solus is also a nerdcore hip-hop artist from the band Tusken Haters.

06) Solus began in early 2012, based in Kansas City. Before the band really started, guitarists Tyler Koehn and Jeriah Eager were working on new ideas and sounds, with a focus on the guitars being not only driven and heavy but also interesting and melodic. Being a past vocalist, Jeriah was open to filling backup vocals but overall they knew that they were wanting a sound that was unique from today's modern rock. Seeking this diverse and melodic sound, it was clear that female lead vocals were needed and that's when they found vocalist, Laura Roach. Her passionate vocals blend seamlessly with the dynamic, huge guitars and male backing vocals. There was an instant connection both vocally and musically that would set the stage for the band to grow quickly. When drummer, Michael Krueger tried out for the band, they knew they had found something special. He performs with a power and finesse that builds the foundation of these songs and keeps them driving till the end. In early 2013, this great lineup was completed with the addition of Rob Harrington as the band's bassist. His great bass tone, attitude and energy on stage and off, have added a whole new level to the band. "The Key" is the debut EP that was made possible solely from the support and dedication of the fans. Solus continues to grow everyday with this amazing fan base and won't be slowing down anytime soon. If you appreciate hard rock that's not afraid to push the limits while still giving you a diverse and melodic sound, then its time to check out Solus.

07) Solus is a Symphonic Death Metal artist with influences from Dark Souls, Warhammer 40K & H.P Lovecraft. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.