Solvent is Jason Amm, a robot music composer, analog synthesizer fetishist, and co-founder of the renowned Suction Records label. Born in Zimbabwe in 1972, Solvent currently resides in a room full of machines in Toronto, Canada.

Solvent has been releasing his unique brand of synthesizer-pop music since 1997, and is best known for his releases on Morr Music (2001's Solvent City) and Ghostly International (2004's Apples & Synthesizers, 2005's Elevators & Oscillators). Solvent has created his own unique version of electro-pop: too elegant and sincere for the electroclash set, too complex and contemporary to sound like it was recorded in 1981, and too seeped in the time-honoured traditions of melody, songwriting and hands-on synthesis to be lost in the overcrowded world of IDM. Along with some notable remixes including Soft Cell, Alter Ego, and Adult., Solvent has also contributed standout tracks to several influential electronica compilations in recent years, including Putting The Morr Back In Morrissey (Morr Music), Disco Nouveau (Ghostly International), and Misery Loves Company (Ersatz Audio). His songs have also been licensed to several high-profiles DJ mix CDs, including Sven Vath's Sound of the 5th Season (Cocoon), Dr. Lektroluv's Lektroluv 5 (541), and Death in Vegas's Fabriclive 23 (Fabric London). Today, Solvent is widely regarded in the underground electronica community as being at the forefront of electro-pop's return to form.

UK magazine The Wire recently described Solvent as part of a new generation of composers "gleefully blurring the lines" between modern techno and vintage techno-pop. Solvent currently records exclusively for Ghostly International, and has been touring extensively since 2004, having shared the stage with Adult., Legowelt, Bola, Junior Boys, Matthew Dear, Lusine, Lowfish, and others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Solvent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.