There are multiple artists with this name: 

1) Soma is an instrumental, electronic/organic project featuring the talents of David Thrussel from Black Lung / Snog and Pieter Bourke from Dead Can Dance.
The music of Soma is built on the relationship and alliance between melodic/danceable structures and masses of various "found" sounds. The overall effect invokes a cascade of B-grade psychological/horror/thrillers, spaghetti westerns, strangely political sci-fi films and a vast volume of the finest conspiracy literature.

2) Soma is an Arabic female artist.
Her debut album is called 'Eb Alek. She is a very sweet and very talented young artist who caught the attention of one of the biggest Egyptian producers “Nasr Mahrous”.


3) Sagi Ochion, known as Soma, is a DJ and son of Momi Ochion. DJing since age 12. Amanita Muscaria released at age 15. Influenced by father, Riktam & Bansi of GMS & especially Sebastian Taylor.


4) Soma and was started in Wisconsin. Their music can be desribed as: indie, powerpop, alternative. They just recently self-released another album, called "Back to Massachusetts".
www.somamusic.tk
www.myspace.com/somawi


5) Soma is from Sosnowiec(Poland). This one play something around nu-heavy-thrash-metal. 
The band started at this name about April '05, Those days Soma was:
Biały - drums
Mikos - bass
Kuba - rythm guitar
Przeszczep - lead guitar

There was no vocal then. In this shape they had their first concert. Around september '05 Gruby (keybord) joined the band and some time later Kuba started singing. First concert with Kuba's vocals was stopped by organisator after second song. Next time they had more luck. It was in september '06 in Bukowno - Kuba's family town. Then band found new vocalist - Klaudia joined band on November '06  and had her 'first time' two weeks later on Kuba's and Mikos' birthday party in Antidotum club (1st December 06). 
Now they're collecting some money to record demo at last. 

Today members:
Klaudia - vocals
Biały - drums
Kuba - lead/rythm guitar
Przeszczep - lead/rythm guitar
Mikos - bass
Gruby - keybord

6) SOMA are a 5 piece rock act from Sydney, Australia. Their debut, independent EP BEFORE WE DROWN was released in late 2005 and the band are currently working on new material and finalising their new line-up before making another assault on the local and national scene.
www.myspace.com/somatose

7) Soma is a Finnish pop/rock band with affective and deep lyrics. "Soma" is Finnish and means charming/cute/beautiful. Songs are really worthy of listening. 
http://somansivut.com/
http://myspace.com/somansivut

8) Soma is original Avant Garde Progressive Rock band from Los Angeles, California, founded in 1978. SOMA currently has a shredding new CD slated for a spring 2009 release... featuring Mark Gleed (keys/vox), Guy Eckstine (dr/prc/vox), David Shawn Waldroop (gtr), Allan Holdsworth (gtr) and Tony Levin (bass)
http://www.myspace.com/therealsoma

8) Soma was an Icelandic rock band formed in 1996. They released one album called Föl in 1997.

9) Soma Soma was started in 2008 by rhythm and lead vocalist Jefe Hollinger.  The band includes Jasan Radford, lead guitar and vocals, Christian Hernandez on bass and vocals, and Kyle Hollinger on drums.  Soma mixes heavy guitar riffs with intelligent lyrics and one hell of a dynamic stage presence.
http://www.entersoma.com/site/


10) Soma Soma is a hard rock band from Fort Wayne, Indiana that formed in 2008.

Members:
Johnny Soma - Vocals & Guitar
Kevin Naber - Guitar
D Lahrman - Bass
A.J. Becerra - Drums
http://www.facebook.com/musicofsoma/

11) Soma  is a Perth MC (born in Leeds, UK). In 2011 he released his 1st album - Heartcore. Soma, originally from England, brings a dope little gem to the Perth Hip Hop scene with this album, where most tracks are produced by Bipola, a few others were produced by Rob Shaker, Eddy Xtrackt and Creed Birch.

12) Soma is an indie rock band from St. Louis, Missouri. They've been playing together since the early 2000's. They released their first CD in May 2012 titled "Soma".

Members:
Noah Leiner - Vocals, Guitar, Kayboard, Hammond
Dick Buttry - Guitar, Backup Vocals
Milton McDaniel - Bass, Backup Vocals
Donny Hake - Drums
http://somatunes.com/
http://www.facebook.com/somatheband 

13) Soma is the ambient solo project of Michael Gagen, guitarist of Arcane and Echotide. He has released three albums under this name and is based in Brisbane, Australia. 

14) Soma is an indie rock band from San Pedro Sula, Honduras, formed in 2016. Their songs, both in Spanish and English, feature a heavy influence fromthe neo-psychedelia movement. Their two constant members have been vocalist/guitarst Roma Pavón and bassist Hector Molina, who is also a member of Moave.

15) Soma (소마), also known as Keezy (키지) or Dasom (다솜) is a South Korean singer. She is one half of the duo Verry and a former member of the girl group Tahiti. She made her solo debut in 2016.

16)  SOMA is an English psychedelic rock band formed in 1991. The band was made up of vocalist Scott SKINNER, guitarist Steve KIDNEY, bassist Trance CLOUDY, keyboardist Stephen LISSENDEN, guitarist/vocalist Sean FILKINS, drummer Philip LEGENDE, and guitarist Simon HANNAFORD. The band released their fist studio album, "Epsilon," in 1991, and their second, "Dreamtime," in 1995. The band never released anything thereafter.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.