Somber Blessings is based in Danvers, Massachusetts, which was once part of Old Salem Massachusetts, famous for the Salem Witch Trials. The band began in the early 90's out of the ruins of two other bands local to Massachusetts, Delusion and Epitaph. The term "ruins" is a bit strong, since Delusion and Somber Blessings co-existed for some time, but there was certainly an overlapping of members between the bands. The core members of Epitaph included Justin Need on drums, Dave Perry on bass, Scott Randall on guitar, and Jay Smith on vocals. Somber Blessings was originally a more "traditional" kind of modern band, which utilized guitars, drums, bass, and vocals to do live performances and recordings. The original members of Somber Blessings were Eric Kirtchberg, Justin Need, and Scott Randall. Today, however, Somber Blessings is mainly a recording project with a dynamic line-up. When we do a recording, other musicians come in as session players and perform. The first demo tape, "The Winds of the Earth", was recorded during this whole transition, which is one of the reasons it took several years to record and release.

The musical style of Somber Blessings is a kind of combination of death metal and doom, utilizing the standard guitar/bass/drums along with keyboards, violins, female vocals, ect. The goal is to maintain the power of traditional death metal along side more melodic and atmospheric components. The main vocals are pure death metal style, with sections of "regular" vocals. 7-string guitars and 5-string bass are used to allow a deep range for heavier sections while maintaining the upper range for more melodic sections.

Somber Blessings recently finished its newest release (CD): "Legend". It was officially released on June 13th, 1998. It was recorded at BigT Productions studio in Boston, MA and mixed at Mixed Emotions Music in Middleton, MA. The line-up was as follows:

        David Belleville - vocals        
        Deya Denova - cello        
        Maranda Kuse - vocals        
        Scott Randall - guitar, bass, vocals, keyboards, sequencing        
        Lauren Spooner - vocals        
        Daryl Swett - vocals        
        Daniel Tropeano - vocals        
        Larry Young - violin
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Somber+Blessings">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.