There are two artists called Some Girls.

1. The first is a female alternative pop-rock trio made up of singer/guitarist Juliana Hatfield, singer/bassist Heidi Gluck (The Only Children) and singer/drummer Freda Love of the band Mysteries Of Life, founded in 2001.

Hatfield and Love had previously been bandmates in the influential Boston indie band Blake Babies. After reuniting for the first time in years when Blake Babies briefly reformed in 2001, Hatfield and Love decided they wanted to continue working with one another, despite living in different states, and began writing songs together by sending each other tapes through the mail. Love asked her friend, Indianapolis musician Gluck, previously of the band The Pieces, to provide bass on their collaborations and Some Girls were born.

Naming themselves after the classic 1978 album by The Rolling Stones, the band recorded their debut album Feel It, released in 2003, in just one week. The album was well received and the tour that followed proved successful enough that the band decided to team up once again for a second album. Released in 2006, Crushing Love, was described by Love as a "more collaborative" effort than their debut and in addition to the band members' own compositions, it also featured three tracks penned by outside writers including He's On Drugs Again written by LonPaul Ellrich of the Indiana band Sardina and Magnetic Fields written by Love's husband and fellow Mysteries Of Life member, Jake Smith.

2. The second was a five-piece hardcore punk unit from San Diego, active from 2002 to 2007, consisting of members from a variety of influential hardcore bands. They began in early 2002 with vocalist Wes Eisold (American Nightmare/Give Up the Ghost) and guitarist Rob Moran (ex-Unbroken) coming together with the common dream of creating a band that could be both brutal and innovative -- and mess people up. Sal Gallegos (Secret Fun Club, Two Miles Till Iocon studio) joined in on drums the next day and the trio recorded its first songs. Deathwish Inc. Records heard these raw demos and offered to put out what became the group's first 7" release, The Rains EP.

With the band needing a permanent bassist for shows, Justin Pearson (the Locust, Crimson Curse) joined on, with second guitarist Christopher Sprague (Tristeza) being added a few months later. A second release, The Blues EP, was recorded along the way, and later was combined with The Rains EP on the compilation All My Friends Are Going Death in the spring of 2004. The year 2004 remained busy for Some Girls, the band seeing two East Coast and West Coast tours, Sprague being replaced on guitar with Chuck Rowell (Plot to Blow Up the Eiffel Tower), and the recording of the EP The DNA Will Have Its Say. In the fall of 2005, Moran left the band to pursue other interests and was replaced by Nathan Joyner. January 2006 saw the release of the band's first full-length album on Epitaph, Heaven's Pregnant Teens. The album showcased the band's trademark thrash attack with greater levels of distortion and experimentation. Chuck Rowell has recently left the band and Rockey Crane (of Year Future; ex-Dead and Gone, Creeps On Candy) has replaced him on guitar. 

On 23 October 2007 punknews.org published an article stating that the band have broken up. The band's former label, "Deathwish Inc." went on to confirm this announcement by posting on its official website: "Word from various members of Some Girls is that they have officially and quietly put the band to rest. Some Girls released music on Deathwish, 31G, and lastly Epitaph Records. The band also toured with the likes of Daughters, The Locust, Converge, and many more during their short life."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Some+Girls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.