There is more than one artist by this name.

1) Somnium is a progressive rock band from Adelaide, Australia. 

Somnium began in Feburary 2015 under the old name of Oxymoron as a two piece, guitar and drums. The sound since the beginning is continually evolving and new elements have been added. The sound of Somnium is depicted by punchy riffs, floating melodies and hypnotic motifs, with elements of blues, garage and psychedelia.

'Adelaide trio Oxymoron say that they make ‘stoner rock’, and one is inclined to believe them; they play rock, and they sound stoned. However, they also sound like they have a rigorous, soberly-minded editing stage somewhere in the songwriting process. I Lost My Mind Trying To Work Out Yours is as focused as an honors student.' - Rip It Up 

'Adelaide band, Somnium warmed up the stage with their floating psychedelic/experimental sounds—they were certainly a band you could get lost in. With sweet notes of harmony layered over spaced out vocals and casually intricate riffs, they played with an air of nonchalance that disguised the cleverness of their songs.' - TEO Mag

‘Recently Somnium have been playing to quite large crowds and it shows — their performance was tight, with clear changes in tempo and tune. These guys were the dark horse of the evening, playing slow, chaotic and strange melodies that contrast heavily with the rest of the bands.’ - TEO Magazine 

‘Top 10 Best Adelaide Pysch Bands’ - Rip It Up

2)  Somnium was a gangsta be-bop crew that specialised in post-pixie and time travel.  They released several EP's to much critical acclaim but never completed a full length album.  Unless warranted by popular demand it is unlikely Somnium will ever reform.  Their music is available as part of a greatest hits package "All Hits All the Time".

3) Somnium (Mark Lightfoot) is a Psytrance producer currently signed with Kinematic Records.

4) Somnium aka is a drone ambient audio-visual project from Italy, formed in 2011. Their music is based on perception of reality during dreaming state. It wants also to describe perceptions during alterated states of mind of various genres. The project consists of 2 elements: ky (audio) and Calliope (visual). Official pages: http://www.facebook.com/somniuminvisione - http://somnium.bandcamp.com

5) Somnium is a Greek Uplifting Trance act.

6) Somnium is a doujin circle with only one album, mostly ran by Korean artist Evergreen (Sangnoksu), making their first release at winter comiket 89 in late 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Somnium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.