Members:

Brian Wright (Guitar, Vocals) 
Robert McCurdy (Guitar) 
Damon Young (Drums) 
SEEKING BASSIST

The project began back in 2003 and endured despite several lineup changes as well as changes in musical direction. At the core until recently were Brian Wright and Randy Jones throughout the uncertainty. Brian was originally the drummer before transitioning to guitar/vocals after a chance meeting with long time friend Damon Young in the spring of 2006 after his return from the military. Damon stepped in; an exceptional drummer that can fulfill very demanding rhythms. It worked out very well since Brian had originally been a guitarist, but vocals were new territory. Robert McCurdy was referred to us as a potential match for the band. It turned out to be a perfect match with both of them complimenting one another incredibly well and above all enjoying playing alongside of each other. 

A full length CD entitled “The Proliferation” was recorded over the spring of 2007 and released in June of 2007. We are pleased with the culmination from all of our diligent work on the project. 

The current members draw inspiration from many genres, but the musical focus has been a fusion of death, black, thrash, and traditional metal stylings into something to call our own. It seems that the goal has been hard to reach, but it’s fair to say that Sonic Devastation was truly born in those early months of 2006 despite the groundwork leading up to that point. Demos had been recorded as time allowed and shows have been played, including an appearance at Salt Lake City’s Hard Rock Cafe, local headlining shows, and an opening slot for national band Psychostick. We’ve played to receptive audiences since the Summer of 2006 and we thank everyone who has attended the shows in support! 

Early 2008 bears witness of the first new demo entitled "Imago Mortis"! Expect further pain to be delivered throughout the year leading up to a new studio effort!

THE ENTIRE CD IS AVAILABLE FOR DOWNLOAD IN OUR SNOCAP MUSIC STORE ON OUR MYSPACE PAGE. PLEASE VISIT www.MySpace.com/SonicDevastation AND VISIT OUR ONLINE STORE! THE ENTIRE CD IS AVAILABLE FOR DOWNLOAD AT $9.99! Shirt and CD orders are also being fulfilled from the MySpace Page! We'd love to hear from you since correspondence is much easier there. http://www.myspace.com/sonicdevastation - Horns High, 
S.D.

THANKS TO ALL OF YOU WORLDWIDE FOR YOUR SUPPORT!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sonic+Devastation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.