Sonorous Odium is a Melodic/Blackened death metal band hailing from Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. Drawing from inspiration spanning every spectrum of the darkest genres of music, Sonorous Odium has been honing their sound since the early months of 2006 and is currently composing their first full-length release. Through every variety of struggle they have persevered and grown in brotherhood, maturity, character and determination to craft the finest music and spread it as far as their are ears to hear it.

To understand the music and purpose of Sonorous Odium, one must understand the name; the definition; the vision.

Sonorous [səˈnɔːrəs ˈsɒnərəs]
adj
2. (Of language or sound) Deep or resonant; grandiloquent.

In the eyes of the artist, the word Sonorous is definitive in both of its meanings. In language, it is related both abstractly to the resonance and depth of the lyrical content, ranging from philosophical, soul searching passages to societal and practical issues of today. The messages are not always on the surface, and they are neither clear nor universal in that they are intended for the listener to define on an individual and deeply personal basis. Secondly it is related to the deep and dynamically powerful vocals which deliver the content with undeniable and charismatic presence. In sound, it is related to an orchestral quality; the depth, complexity, and subtle power of an orchestra. This sound becomes the perfect storm when presented with the juxtaposed themes and sounds of Odium.

Odium
n.
1. Hatred.
2. The infamy or opprobrium brought on by being hated or by hateful behavior.

With the refinement of a Sonorous sound comes the brutality, the rebellion, the aggression; the true identifying subject of the music. Once again though, the translation is not as simple as the definition. Odium refers not only to the anger of the music, nor the opprobrious nature of the death metal genre, but to a much wider spectrum of themes largely including addressing the matters of humanity to which most would rather turn the blind eye. It is about saying what most would rather not hear, and about being what most would rather ignore and spit upon than accept. It is about hatred and intolerance for the status quo, for the way of mainstream society, and for the imprisonment of the mid that is so pervasive and accepted in our society. It is about defiance and liberty, and standing fearless against those who would silence the message. So far evolved, it is still about many of the same things that inspired the founding fathers of metal, here today fresh and pure in form.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sonorous+Odium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.