Please help take part in our Full-Length with us by going to http://kck.st/cFDJBr

Surrender. Those nine letters described a discouraged, burned- out heart as Aaron Newberry gave up his dream of creating music that he could truly and wholeheartedly love. After touring with many successful, renowned acts, Newberry found himself looking to piece together a music venture of his own. “I recorded everything on my own. It was just a solo project. I couldn’t find members, and I wasn’t happy with my current writing and circumstances. I just gave up and quit.” However, this breaking point was just what was needed.

As Newberry surrendered his prior aspirations of making Sons of God a household name, God began working through four previously established friendships. The results of this obedience, trust, and patience became evident as Jacob Bundren partnered with him in his musical aspirations. "The following week I received a phone call," Newberry recalls. It was a phone call that ultimately led Kyle Laster, Alex Rust and Jordan McGee to merge with and therefore complete the Sons of God lineup.

“We want to let people know that we’re not just up here playing music. It’s the medium in which we serve,” Newberry states. Sons of God is built with the intent to minister to, encourage, convict, and send out disciples who are ready for battle. “I really want to communicate to people that we’re currently in a generation that is okay with going to church and not really being Christians. But church doesn’t save you… and Biblical illiteracy is killing us.” Newberry also warns of the coming oppression here in the West – an oppression that could cause Christians to cling to Christ all the more, or simply fall away in the face of opposition. “It’s time to get prepared,” he shares. “I think that we’re going to understand what it was like for the saints. I just want to say that this is war and you need to understand that and equip yourself.”

Lyrically, Sons of God talks about doubt, grace, sanctification, and many other aspects of spiritual life. They write in hopes of challenging listeners not to accept complacency, but to continue to learn and move forward. Musically, the sound that emanates truly is one of epic proportions. With an unmistakably darker tone, Sons of God hopes to capture what would be the “soundtrack to the book of Revelation” by exploring the dark and even frightening aspects of what the future holds.

With a solid lineup, intense sound, imploring lyrics and a growing fan base, Sons of God is delving deep into the act of ministry through music. “I think of it as nothing but [ministry]!” Newberry shares. They hope to tour in the latter half of 2010, as well as begin recording a new record. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sons+of+God">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.