'Sons Of Seasons’ was founded in 2007, around January. Up to this point Oliver Palotai has always been an instrumentalist in bands that already existed way before he became a member. So what he finally needed was a melting point for all his skills, as player, composer and producer.

In January 2007 Oliver Palotai, Daniel Schild and Luca Princiotta were still members of Blaze, the band of Iron Maiden’s former singer Blaze Bayley. Disagreeing with the methods of Blaze’s new management the whole line- up decided to quit (and soon Blaze himself parted with his management).

It was the perfect point of time for Oliver not to search for another existing project to participate but to start his own thing, a musical playground without limitations. Based on not always positive experiences of the past Oliver knew that the perfect line- up had to consist out of great musicians, without doubt, but also out of persons being able to work as a team for many upcoming years without tripping over oversized egos. So, the first two members besides Oliver were Luca and Daniel, joining in Spring 2007, and Jurgen Steinmetz on bass, in the following summer.

The biggest challenge for Oliver during the initial songwriting process was to bring all his passion for Metal, Jazz and Classical Music together. Surprisingly, once started, it was easier than he thought it would be. At a quite early point you could already hear & feel how Sons Of Seasons would sound like.

Also around summer 2007, the first singer, Tijs Vanneste, was found. Although Tijs proved to be a great musician the bands’ future touring plans didn’t fit the tight working schedule at his job. Still, in some of the songs of the debut album, you will find a couple of songs with parts inspired by his ideas.

Oliver met Henning Basse, the new and final vocalist, during a tour in Japan. Amazed by the singers’ outstanding live performance Oliver got in contact with Henning end of 2007 and introduced the song material. Henning immediately saw common musical ground and started adding his ideas to the material. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sons+of+Seasons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.