Soopafly is a producer/rapper from Long Beach, California. His real name is Priest Joseph Brooks.

Though a rather prominent member of Tha Dogg Pound in later days, he got his start as a professional artist somewhat later than many other members like Snoop Dogg, Kurupt, RBX or Warren G. He was not signed to Death Row initially and released the "I Don't Hang" single in early 1996 for the soundtrack to Martin Lawrence's Thin Line Between Love & Hate motion picture. a soundtrack which also featured the "Beware of My Crew" track from fellow Snoop Doggy Dogg affiliates, the LBC Crew: Bad Azz, Technique (Techniec), Tray Deee, Lil C-Style, and Mz. South Sentrelle. All versions of the "I Don't Hang" track (Radio Edit and Gee Mix on the single, as well as the LP version) were entirely produced and remixed by Soopafly himself, and he appeared on the soundtrack courtesy of GangstaGangsta Music. Also in 1996 he was featured on Snoop's Tha Doggfather album by rapping on You Thought (along with Too $hort) in addition to co-producing some tracks on the album.

As a producer, Soopafly started behind the scenes in 1994 by helping both Dr. Dre and Dat Nigga Daz craft their beats at Death Row Records, however, it was not until later days Soopafly himself produced and was credited for it. Since 1997 he produced for Death Row acts while also making an album for himself, which was to be named Like it or not. Like many projects of Death Row artists this work was shelved. This was when his relationship with Death Row started to sour after it was announced he was a homosexual . Eventually, he left in 1999 after having to file bankruptcy. He then joined his longtime friend Daz on D.P.G. Recordz, while also introducing the world to soulful singer LaToiya Williams for whom he both wrote and produced. In 2000, both he and LaToiya left Daz to join Snoop's newly installed and prestigious Dogghouse Records, later named Doggystyle Records. Soopafly has no official album out, but in 2001 Daz released a number of tracks left over from 'Like it or not' and some previously released ones as a compilation titled Dat Whoopty Woop.

Recently Soopafly produced 3 tracks on the new dpg album 'Cali Iz Active' and is staying quiet on Dpg recordz.

There are no dates at the moment regarding a solo album.

In July 2006, Snoop Dogg put together a group called "Westurn Union" featuring Soopafly, Damani, and Bad Lucc. No album dates or details have been talked about, but they released a street single titled "I Don't Think So". The track is produced by the Bay Area's Rick Rock and consists of the three artists changing verses throughout.


Soopafly Also Has A New Album Coming Out This Year Called "Bangin Westcoast" With The Features Of Damani, Snoop Dogg, B-Real, Tha Dogg Pound & More. There Has Not Been A Official Release Date.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soopafly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.