Sororicide was a death metal band from Reykjavik, Iceland. Sororicide was founded early 1990 by Gisli (bass/vocals) and Gaui (guitar). To begin with they played heavy thrash metal but soon evolved into death metal. The first gig was in June the same year, but it wasn't until the band won a national band contest in 1991, under the name Infusoria, that they started to get noticed. Soon after they changed the name back to Sororicide and autumn 1991 saw the band enter the studio. 

 The Entity was released in December the same year, by an Icelandic record label called Platonic Records. The line-up was, along with Gisli and Gaui, Karl on drums, Fróði on guitar and Bogi vocals. The album got a fine reception and sold reasonably well. Early 1992 Bogi left the band, and Gisli took over the vocal duties again. In march 1992 the band entered the studio again to record a few songs for an Icelandic metal compilation album. Later that year, Apocalypse was released, which contained three songs by Sororicide. These recordings got very positive reviews, both in Iceland and abroad. Sororicide entered the studio yet again in the summer 1993 to record for a 7" that was to be released by Rising Realm Records in Finland. This incarnation of the band included Arnar on guitar and Unnar on drums, as well as the founders, Gisli and Gaui. These recordings weren't released until spring 1994, as a split CD with UK's Chorus of Ruin, with Sororicide's part called Godlike. Unfortunately, the band had played their last of over sixty gigs a couple of months before Godlike was released. Then in early 2000, after a six year break, Gísli and Unnar with the help of Bjarni and Frosti, guitar players of Mínus, played the last Sororicide gig at the Reykjavik Music Festival in June 2000 .

 Reformed in 2009, re-released the demo tracks as an ep, but split up again in 2011.

"Sororicide" is the act of killing one's own sister. It derives from the Latin soror for sister and -cide, derived from caedere, to cut or kill.' 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sororicide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.