The original idea of Sorrowful Angels was made in 1999, but it was during December 2008 that Sorrowful Angels decided to share their music worldwide. In 2009 they signed a record deal with Sleaszy Rider Records, entered CFN Studios and record some brand new material making a very dynamic debut.

Their first full length album called “Ship In Your Trip”, contains 10 darkly brooding melancholic songs. Sorrowful Angels soon started to land gigs in the Greek and European underground scene, make appearances in the national TV stations and giving interviews in the press sharing their thoughts and presenting their initial atmospheric material who reached the Top 50 of Greek radio airplays.

Along with the recordings, their first official video clip of the song “Denial” was created and directed by Bob Katsionis (Firewind, Outloud).

At the same time are handpicked by legendary Claus Meine (Scorpions), himself to enter the final round of the Scorpions contest held in Greece. It was the first time ever in the country that a Gothic Rock/Metal band ever achieved such an honour.

Later that year, a special EP containing 5 tracks out of the debut album and their “Denial” video clip, was made and packaged along with Metal Hammer’s (Gr) October issue giving the band extensive promotion.

In February of 2010, Sorrowful Angels where voted by the readers as one of the 5 most important and promising heavy metal bands in Greece’s Metal Hammer annual poll.

In June 2010 they released their second official video clip of the song Suicidal Manners taken from the album ‘’Ship in your Trip’’ directed by PLAYS2PLACE Production.

During October 2010 it was announced that vocalist Kostas Katikos would leave the band for family issues and that the remaining members would continue as a quartet, having Dion (Vocals/Guitar) taking over the frontman duties.

After a request of the Swedish band Code 64 they worked on their Digital EP Deviant which was released by Progress Productions in August 2011

Sorrowful Angels were selected to participate as opening act by various Greek promoters such as Big Star Promotion/Touring in live performances like Paradise Lost, Katatonia, Sirenia and Star Industry. They shared the stage with acts like Anathema, UDO, Rotting Christ, Crossover, Deviser and many more.

Entering once again in the studio, Sorrowful Angels prepared their second album called “Omens” at CFN Recordings Studio, which is due for release at Christmas 2011.

“Omens” maintains the melody line of the first album but with extended the musical pallet, giving a bigger accent in the electronic elements and in the phonetic experimentations. With harder wrapping it is moved in the dark and atmospheric side of gothic metal leading the band into paths that have not explored until now.

The first official video clip taken from “Omens” is already released and created by RawRec Productions. The song “Right Of Way” in sound and picture it is the precursor of what will follow afterwards.

Their line up consists of:
Dion Christodoulatos (Vocals, Guitar)
Filippos Papakiriakou (Guitar, Backing Vocals)
Ilias Boozeas/George Mundaneas (Bass)
Chris Stratigos (Drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sorrowful+Angels">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.