In the fall of 1995, out of the ashes of Uller, guitarists Cristof Bennet and David Wills set out to plant the flag of Heavy Metal in North Carolina. The goal was to carry on with the ideals of the Metal bands that had inspired them; namely Iron Maiden, Deathrow, King Diamond, Possessed, Kreator, Coroner, and the like. A year later, they met Joshua Pantke at a Mercyful Fate concert. As his former prog-metal band The Fifth Season had recently disbanded, he quickly decided to join the Bequestial crusade for true metal as the band's bass player. At this point the band was primarily an open-ended project, for there was a depleted metal army in the area. With Cristof also playing drums, the band flew to Boston to record a cult two-song demo, aided by brothers in Metal, December Wolves. The session included Michelle on vocals, who was the first of many females to join the Bequestial Battle only to depart from the ranks for one reason or another. 

May 1997 brought Brian Watson into the affray as the drummer. This allowed Cristof to concentrate on his guitarwork and Sorrow Bequest captured more ground toward the goal of becoming a band with live performance capability. (However, things didn't work well with him and they parted ways several months later.)

July 1997 guitarist Johnny Wooten, formerly of Visceral Remains, donned his axe and joined the ranks. Shortly thereafter, David departed.

November 1997 brought the recording of the "Torn from the Last" demo. At this point, Sorrow Bequest were planning on recording with what was now their sixth female singer. During the final hours of the recording session, they parted ways with Denise. It was decided that Cristof and Johnny would take over the vocal duties in order to properly communicate the message 
of the music. 

Febuary 1998 Johua leaves for England to finish school. Younger brother Micheal Wooten was recruted to fill in on bass for live preformances.

March 1998 Jesse Haff of the band Daylight Dies (formerly known as Phenix) was recruited to take over percussion duties until his departure in August for school and his main band. 

August 1998 guitarist Chris Hill, and drummer John Snead (a former of Debauchery), both formerly of Gods In Waiting, are drafted to bring back the three guitar stylings, and place a battery in Sorrow Bequest’s 
onslaught of Metal against all that is false.

The members of Sorrow Bequest have gone on to take part in various other projects around the Raleigh area including:

John E. Wooten IV, Cristof Bennet & Joshua Pantke now make up the core of Cruz Del Sur Music recording artists Widow.
http://www.widowusa.com

Chris Hill is now a member of Raleigh doom merchants Soulpreacher.
http://www.soulpreacher.info

John Snead is currently occupying the drum throne of Tribunal Records' recording artists Dreamscapes of the Perverse.
http://www.dreamscapesoftheperverse.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sorrow+Bequest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.