There are several bands that have used the name (The) Sorrows:

[1] The Sorrows are considered perhaps to be the archetypal freakbeat band.

[2] Sorrows was a power pop band from NYC, that formed out of the ashes of The Poppees and recorded two albums in the early 1980's. 

[3] Sorrows, from Orange County, California, features Bleeding Through’s Brandan Schieppati and Mick Kenney (Anaal Nathrakh) to create Sorrows.  The two musically minded neighbours joined forces in October 2009 to collaborate on this new musical project. The resulting album is, in Mick’s own words, “a mixture of hardcore crustpunk, black metal, electronic beats and super heavy riffage”. 

The album has been written and produced by Mick, with Brandan taking on the vocalist mantle once again. Although still recruiting members for the live line up, they have already drafted in Trevor Friedrich (formerly of 18 Visions, and now of industrialists Combichrist), on drums, whilst Mick will play guitar. 

[4]  Taking shape on school desks at the beginning of 2000, the SORROWS, a really young EMO-PUNK band from Milan, consolidated its own line up this way: Richie Shearer, the band’s vocalist and guitarist, accompanied by the powerful soundtrack of Ed Burton and Max Steal, respectively drummer and bass player.
The first demo "Wrath", (2001)made at the time by fourteen-year-old boys, has in it young influences of American bands like Blink182 and Greenday; this demo was followed by "Cock in stock" (2002) which was on the same tensions of the first. In September 2003, after arriving at the second place on the MusicSchoolContest's podium, they recorded with producer Larsen Premoli their first full-length "Proud to be Useless", which showed signs of maturity from the very young trio.
In 2004 they began an intense live activity in the main Milan places, trying the boards of important stages just like the Rolling Stones, bringing their reality on straight contact with other teenagers, performing in several schools. Requested again on the second edition of the MusicSchoolContest, this time in the fabulous location of “Affari square” in the centre of Milan, they conquered the title of Best band of the manifestation (in this edition on regional level!) getting the maximal consent of the jury and taking the first prize.
Then they kept their live activity at its best supporting important Italian band like Vanilla Sky on Rolling Stones’ stage, collecting again the positive opinion of the public.
After a period in which the different members of the group gave outlet to their own creative and expressive demands working at many side-projects, the Sorrows came back together to compose new songs, finding out darker shades similar to the Alkaline trio band, Cure, Motion city soundtrack, all this without forgetting their pop-punk origin: these songs will give birth to "Remember me" -now in production stage- which will be produced by Larsen Premoli for the LarsenProjects, a concept-album with both electric and acoustic tracks centred on young people's problems.

[5]  Sorrows is a United States depressive black metal project created by sole proprietor Tuch.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sorrows">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.