Thanasis Fragopoulos formed Sorrowful Winds in Athens, Greece in 1990. After a long period of constant changes in the line up, two demo releases and several live appearances throughout the country, that created a good reputation and a solid core of fans, Sorrowful Winds recorded "The Imminent Arrival" their first-ever official release. Out in July 1999 by "Seven Records" found the band with the following line up: Dimitris Sirgiannis (vocals), Thanasis Hatziagapis (guitars), Babis Zisiou (guitars), Kostas Rigopoulos (Keyboards), Thanasis Fragopoulos (bass) and Chris Katselis (drums). After a short period of time Babis Zisiou left the band which kept on going as a quintet ever since.
In order to promote "The Imminent Arrival" Sorrowful Winds gave a number of live appearances and as a highlight their supporting on Gamma Ray (Rodon Club Athens 21/5/2000). Disputes with "Seven Records" forced Sorrowful Winds to look for a new record label to release their newly composed material. In the summer of 2001 the band entered the studio once again to record their follow up called "The Age Of Dreams". Released in December 2001 by NMC Records it depicted the maturity and the constant progress of the band through the years, combining power/progressive metal with doom and atmospheric elements. Once again Sorrowful Winds played several headlining gigs and supported Candlemass and Evergrey.
At the end of 2002 vocalist Dimitris Sirgiannis decides to leave the band due to personal and musical differences, and after a short term collaboration with Leonidas Chatzimichalis, with whom Sorrowful Winds played along with Pain Of Salvation and Rage, the empty vocalist slot was filled by Alexis Zervanos, of the fellow band Mutiny. In 2003 Sorrowful Winds had some headlining acts around the country and at the end of the year they played with Deadsoul Tribe at AN club. 2004 found keyboardist Kostas Rigopoulos out of the band and guitarist Stavros Gatsopoulos stepping in. With this line-up Sorrowful Winds is in process of writing new material and also performing live with several bands including Biomechanical, Jag Panzer and Anvil.

Their official website is: http://www.sorrowfulwinds.gr/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sorrowful+Winds">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.