Sort Regn is a Danish blackened death metal band founded in 2009 that draws inspiration from bands such as Behemoth, Gorgoroth, Taake and Endstille.
The band was originally founded by 4 people - Lasse Olsen (guitar), Tobias Madsen (vocal) , Christian Ruhwedell (guitar) and Kristoffer Andersen (drums). Sort Regn did not have an official name before June 2010. They have released 2 EP's. 
Lasse left early in the band's lifetime (around March 2010) due to incompatibilities with the other band members. Shortly after Lasse's leave, Sebastian Jensen entered the band as the lead guitarist. Only one song had been written in the original lineup - 'Hate'.
Sort Regn's first bassist, Tor Petterson, joined the band after a few rehearsals during May 2011. He is currently the oldest member of the band.

Their original demo, simply named 'Demo' finished at 10/10/2010 included 4 tracks - 'I Vinterens Mørke' (sometimes written as 'I Vinters Mørke'), 'Hate', 'Rebellion Against All' and 'In the Depths of Loneliness'. The CD has never officially been printed, but is available on music distribution sites, such as Myspace and YouTube. A lossless 24/48 FLAC copy is also available upon direct contact of one of the band members.

Their first EP 'Burn the Cross' was finished in July 2011 printed in limited quantities (1000 CD's in sleeve) on November 2011. and includes 5 tracks - 'King of the Northern Lands', 'Burn the Cross Slaughter the Christians', 'Brutal Insanity', 'Walking in Solitude' and 'Praying Doesn't Help You'.

Sort Regn's live presence has been considerably high with a goal of playing live at least once per month, and is often booked together with the black/death metal band Illnath and the technical death metal band, Downswitch.

Current Lineup:
Tobias 'Grímur' Madsen - vocals
Christian 'Raim' Ruhwedell - rhythm guitar
Sebastian 'Eligor' Jensen - lead guitar
Tor Petterson - bass guitar
Kristoffer 'Morax' Andersen - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sort+Regn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.