Soul Survivors are an American, Philadelphia-based, Soul Music and R&B group, founded by New York natives Richie and Charlie Ingui along with Kenny Jeremiah. Soul Survivors are known for their 1967 hit single "Expressway to Your Heart", which was the first hit by Philadelphia soul record producers and songwriters Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff. Soul Survivors are still performing and recording new music and covers. Most recently working with David Uosikkenen of the The Hooters and his project "In The Pocket" which is paying tribute to the vast catalog of music created in Philadelphia.

Soul Survivors first played together in New York under the name The Dedications, founded by member Kenny Jeremiah, who released several singles under this name in 1962 and 1964. They adopted the name Soul Survivors in 1965. They signed to Philadelphia label Crimson Records, who put them in touch with Gamble & Huff. "Expressway to Your Heart" was a #1 hit regionally in Philadelphia and New York in the fall of 1967, and the tune reached #4 on the Billboard Hot 100 nationally. "Expressway to Your Heart" spent 15 weeks in the charts and sold over one million copies.

The follow-up was "Explosion in Your Soul," which was not as successful (U.S. #33); a third release, "Impossible Mission", also was a minor hit in 1969 (U.S. #68). They quit playing for a few years, but re-formed with a different lineup in 1972. They had one more hit, "City of Brotherly Love" in 1974. In the 1970s, the group lost its record contract and its manager and eventually disbanded. Charlie Ingui became a landscaper, Richie Ingui became a house painter, Paul Venturini became a restaurateur, and drummer Joe Forgione owned an auto body shop. In 1987, the Inqui brothers began playing occasional gigs as the original Soul Survivors and signed a five-record contract in 1991 with Society Hill Records. As of 2006, they were playing occasional dates in the Eastern United States.

Chuck Trois also went on to release a solo 45 rpm single on A&M Records in August 1969, with "Mr. Holmes" on one side, and "A National Band" on the other.

Members
Charlie Ingui - vocals
Richie Ingui - vocals (died January 2017)
Kenny Jeremiah - vocals
Joe Forgione - drums
Paul Venturini - organ
Chuck Trois - guitar
Edward Leonetti - guitar
John (Beedo) Dzubak Sr. - drums
Billy Collins - bass
Ralph Capobianco - drums and percussion (was one of the later drummers)
Sal Rota - keyboards
Novac Noury (Jerry Noury) - organ and bass pedals during 1966

Soul Survivors are not the same as the 1960s Denver-based rock and roll band, also known as the Soul Survivors. They included Bob Raymond, who was later with Sugarloaf.

Its also a hip hop group from USA
Known for 12" - In God We Trust / We Rock The Mic, produced by DJ Hard Rock & M-16, released by Hit Mob Entertainment Label in 2000 year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soul+Survivors">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.