Summer 2004 begun the story you're about to read. Ilkka was seeking musicians to form a new band and stumbled with a fellow called Ville Putkonen via internet and couple weeks later we had 5 piece line-up formed. Back then the line-up was Ilkka - gtr, Ville - voc, Arto Hannula - gtr, Janne Boman - bass and Hessu Mutikainen - drums. By the end of 2004 we had already managed to compose few kick-ass songs and so first demo album with guidance of producer Teemu Aalto was recorded. Album was named While You Thought I Was dead and it was released in April 2005 containing four songs combining scandinavian melodic death metal, hard rock and some old school 80's metal music. And this is the basis for Soulhavoc sound. After the recording session begun the year of difficulties for Soulhavoc. First ahead Hessu and Janne decided to quit the band 'cause of time issues. Few beers later we had already a tryout with Jaakko T and couple weeks later with Teemu R. No need for others to tryout, new members were found. Summer kicked in and the band begun to write new material for up-coming album and another Soulhavoc line-up change was to come. Ville decided to leave from the band, only the devil knows why, and Ilkka took the responsibility to handle vocals also. So no harm done there. We got back in business and recorded few songs on our own at studio Manala. Then few gigs were booked and we made few performances at the end of 2005. At the same time we were mixing our recordings and getting ready to release it, but then again... Arto gave us an announcement that he's no longer eager to be a Soulhavoc member 'cause he had a new poprock band wich he wanted to focus on. Arto played one more show with us at Heinola 24th of february 2006 and after that we let him go. And since Arto played on that recorded demo there was no sense to release it, 'cause naturally we had already found a new guy to handle sologuitars, and we wanted our forth-coming demo to sound as fresh as possible and to represent the real sound of Soulhavoc today. March of 2006 was when Joni S had become a member of Soulhavoc. New finishing touches for the new tunes and we were ready to studio. Producer Sami Hauru was our guiding light this time and we did finally record April 20 demo just in 2 days. The result was better than imagined and the feedback has been all and all positive and the idea for a full lenght debyt album has born.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soulhavoc">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.