SoulScarred is a thrash metal band from Oslo/Sandefjord in Norway. Their music is inspired by bands like Megadeth, Metallica, The Haunted and Anthrax.

SoulScarred was established in 1997 with Chris and Pete (currently with Genetic) on guitars, and Even on drums. Shortly after Bebber, and old friend of Even and Chris`, joined on bass. After a few concerts with Pete on vocals, they agreed to find a solo vocalist and just let Pete do the backing vocals and guitar.

After auditioning a couple of vocalists, the decided to go for Paul Borgersen (currently with Cutthroat). After a few months of hard rehearsing with Paul they recorded a demo called “Regression”. The demo got good reviews, but the band didn’t feel that Paul’s vocal style was in line with the music and decided to look for a new vocalist.

Eirik, an old friend of Pete’s, joined the band early 2000. Things didn’t really move forward at this time, and come spring 2001, Pete quit and joined Bugs B Gone. SoulScarred took a brake for a year, and Bebber ended up not rejoining when the band got back together.

April 2002, Einar (currently with Therawada), an old friend of Chris` joined the band. The demo “Morbid Parody”, a three piece, was recorded in May with a fresh line-up, and Chris doing the bass in addition to his guitar part. (Thanks to Skrotum Studios). SoulScarred did some gigs that year following the “Morbid Parody” release, and re-entered Skrotum studios by fall 2003, to record a new demo called “Personal Holocaust”. “Personal Holocaust” got mixed reviews, although most of them where good. The band played a couple of gigs shortly after, but Even didn’t feel he was adequate enough to keep up with the bands musical progress, and decided to leave late 2003.

A lot of drum auditions where held after Even’s departure, and SoulScarred did some gigs during 2004 following “Personal Holocaust’s” release with Tore on drums. Einar decided to leave SoulScarred in august 2004 after a concert in Bergen. Chris and Eirik quickly re-assembled, and hooked up with Tom (drums), a good friend of the band for many years. They placed an add at -Heavymetal.no, an excellent Norwegian metal-webzine, and soon after, Dr. Strand (also with Inquested) joined. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SoulScarred">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.