Soul Vomit is a pakistani metal band, and one of the most popular ones in the country. Earlier on in their career, they played in a melodic death/thrash metal style but their recent material has been outright Thrash Metal with traditional heavy metal influences. Known for their high energy performances and legendary past gigs such as "Autumn Holocaust", Soul Vomit is spearheaded by Lee Erik and has had a revolving door of musicians as far as its line up is concerned. Ex members have gone on to play in bands such as Communal Grave, Mob Rulz, Autopsy Gothic.

Soul Vomit is the first Pakistani Metal act to record a video. The video was never aired because of the media policies of the government: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DLuoUIi8Flk

The band relocated to Singapore in 2006 and returned to Pakistan in 2007.

In early 2006 The National University of Singapore and the International Student Music Appreciation Association invited Soul Vomit to perform their music on campus, live in Singapore at a MusicFest Program as a Pakistani Representative. The guest of honors at the musicfest were the rock band Audioslave joined by Saliva. Other bands from around the world were also invited to open for them.

And Soul Vomit was to open for Death Metal legends, Morbid Angel on the 24th of July, 2006 in Singapore. Although the whole event got cancelled but Soul Vomit has been the only metal band from Pakistan to recieve an invitation like this.

The band is known affectionately as "The Alliance" by its fans.

Currently recording a new demo.

Current line-up
Lee Eric (aka Dark Soul) - Guitar/Vocals
Salman Mukaddam (aka Raptor Child) - Vocals
Aneeq Zaman - Bass/Drums (Autopsy Gothic)

Former/past member(s)
Umer Noor (aka Souldead) - Bass
Jamail Rafi - Bass (Communal Grave)
Ali Kazmi (aka Lord Shax) - Drums (Cornhole)

Live & Session members
Hadi Naeem - Guest vocals in "War" (Mob Rulz, Nokturnal Rust)
Kadir Khan - Bass
Coffin Feeder - Guest vocals in "One" (Autopsy Gothic, Hell Dormant, Dusk (Pak)) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soul+Vomit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.