Classic Pagan-Doom Folkmetal with strong and heroic german lyrics and many medieval elements. Soulsearch started in the early 90ies to create their own, unique style, which would today be called Folkmetal. but at that time Soulsearch were alone in the fields. 10 years later, Folkmetal (or Metalfolk) as we know it nowadays, began to establish as a own musicstyle… ..Those that became struck by SOULSEARCH in the cold days of the winter 1991, did not recover until today. Led by the vision of Doom Metal in all its multiplicity, SOULSEARCH followed restlessly the musical way of the metallic, gloomy and epic arts. For the first time they drew media interest in 1993 with the MCD "Nature Falls Asleep" (limit. 500 pieces). This black mixture out of Doom, Death and Gothic Metal at that time already found many friends and is now a sought piece. SOULSEARCH grew slowly however steadily and consolidated the name through all kinds of concerts in Austria and Germany. The first Underground Labels already showed interest, but nevertheless they remained without a contract. Also the second sound-recording in 1995, the MCD "Die Essenz" (limit. 500), was recorded independently and presented a refreshing Heavy-Doom Metal version with Folk influences. This also became the first time where next to English, also German texts were used. Again SOULSEARCH could be seen live with their always extravagant presentation. Two years went by as SOULSEARCH prepared for the first full length. It was going to be a concept album with epic hymns of the celts. After long preparation, „Gwynned“ saw the light in 1997. However, instead of the self-production it was intended to be „Gwynned“ was released as cooperation with Serenades Records/ Last Episode Productions. Dark and diverse as never seen before SOULSEARCH showed their face, a grimace of Doom, Dark Wave and Ambient. "Gwynedd" received raving critics from the European press which called SOULSEARCH one of the hottest secrets of the Black/ Doom. Gothic scene. In August of the year 1998 SOULSEARCH went back to Sonic Flow studio to produce the successor to their Debut. The title "Abred vs. Annwn" already shows the textual direction. "Abred" - the human world, against "Annwn" - the world out of the celtic mythology, symbolizing the contrasts in life of each individual. Next to the symphonic force, the compositions on "Abred vs. Annwn" especially live on diversity. Powerful Doom rolls, epic Metal anthems, rythmic Folk songs and gloomy Ambient pieces make "Abred vs. Annwn" a highight in music. In 2000 the band released the 10" vinyl “Iherno” , which was limited to only 100 copies. “Iherno” contained two epic monuments of doom metal, heavy as lead! The masterpieces “Heervater” and “Narbenvolk” are the best compositions they ever made!!! In 2006 Steinklang/Ahnstern Rec. released the compilation “Liedersammlung”. All songs on this album were recorded between 1993 and 2000. The CD includes the final Soulsearch release, “Iherno”. the other songs are a fine selection from their early albums (each album has sold 3000 to 5000 copies in the 90ies.) and one unreleased track. after they split in 2000, two ex-Soulsearch members (Mucho,Thom) joined again in OUR SURVIVAL DEPENDS ON US, a angry sludge formation. Another ex-Soulsearch member (Hajot) is one of the basic-members of STURMPERCHT. Hajot Mucho, Clara and Thom recently formed MAGDALENA (alpine suicide folk). They released the track "A broada Weg" on the Steinklang label compilation "Wilde Jaeger" 2008. 

Source: http://www.myspace.com/soulsearchband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soulsearch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.