Members: Rapture - guitars, bass, vocals
                           AD - drums

Recording  label:  The Dread Lair

Soul Inquisition was started in 1996 by Rapture with the purpose of creating dark music inspired by a lot of the European black and death metal bands. The first two demos ("Living Corpse" and "Messe Noir") were heavily influenced by bands like Hypocrisy, Entombed, Dismember, Grave, Emperor, Darkthrone, and Immortal. At the time a lot of the black metal bands were not well known and hardly anyone in America was creating this kind of music. The music and sound was raw and brutal mixing in elements of both death metal and black metal which at the time few had done or tried. In 1998 Soul Inquisition released its third demo, "Locust", which featured some different approaches than the previous albums. There were the black/death songs but also more doom metal inspired songs influenced by My Dying Bride, Paradise Lost, Candlemass, etc. These first three demos generated a buzz for Soul Inquisition that would be short lived due to production problems and other issues with the fourth demo, "Followers Of The Apocalypse". While this demo contained some of the strongest Soul Inquisition songs it was plagued by poor production causing off time drums and other issues. Not to give up so easily Rapture went back to the drawing board and released in 2000 the critically acclaimed "In Darkness They Hunt". This release was a huge hit on MP3.com and the song "Nightmare" went all the way to number two on the black metal charts were it beat out tough contenders like Emperor, Cradle Of Filth, Dimmu Borgir, Immortal, etc. for three months straight. The album and songs were downloaded and played over 100,000 times in those months. Plans for the follow up were already being talked about and some guest musicians from the Houston scene were scheduled to take part in the album. This never happened due to the tragic death of one of Rapture's close friends from a band in the Houston scene. Danny from Hideously Defleshed was on tap to share vocal duties on the next album but he tragically passed away only a few months after "In Darkness They Hunt" came out. He was Soul Inquisition's biggest fan. Unable to honor Danny's wishes to be on the album Rapture decided to end Soul Inquisition. In 2010 the feeling of making dark heavy music returned. There was only one option and that was to resurrect Soul Inquisition from the dead and continue the legacy and start again. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soul+Inquisition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.