Souls of Diotima is the female-fronted Scenematic Exhilaration Metal™ band with a signature power progressive symphonic sound, fueled by 
commanding non-operatic vocals, fiercely-executed precision guitar solos, and thrilling orchestral compositions and sound effects, resulting in an unforgettable, mesmerizing style. 

The band debuted the "Sentence of the Blade" video in the summer of 2014 on its new VEVO artist channel.  In late July 2014 Souls of Diotima entered Fascination Street Studios in Orebro, Sweden to record its third album, a concept album.

~~SOULS OF DIOTIMA:~~

Claudia Barsi, Lead Vocals 
Giorgio Pinna, Drums 
Salvatore Moretta, Guitar 
Andrea Pinna, Keyboards 
Gianmaria Puledda, Guitar 
Antonio Doro, Bass 
Connie Yerbic, Manager, Support Vocals

To date Souls of Diotima has released two full-length albums, "Maitri," and "What Remains of the Day", and a single, "Sentence of the Blade."
In 2011, Souls of Diotima released our first cd entitled "Maitri" under the English label Casket Copro Records. 
This was followed in 2012 by the album "What Remains of The Day," released under the Revalve Records label. 

Souls of Diotima entered Massive Arts Studios in Milan, Italy in August 2013 to record a new song to be released as a single, "Sentence of the Blade." The original cover art was designed by internationally respected Manga/Anime artist Andrea Yuu Dentuto.

Throughout 2013, in addition to recording the single "Sentence of the Blade," Souls of Diotima performed multiple concerts in Italy, traveled to the Czech Republic and played in the Under Dark Moon Rock Metal Fest there, played the Mores Folk Metal Festival with Saurom, opened the official band website and store, and appeared as a guest at the 10th Anniversary televised edition of Note d'Autore. 

History:

Souls of Diotima was originally formed in 2004 by brothers Giorgio and Renato Pinna.

Souls of Diotima has received extensive recognition and won a number of rock metal contests, 
including 1st place at Note d'estate, Sedini Rock, Newsound Festival and Bulzi Rock. 
Souls of Diotima appeared live on RockTv in Milan, was included in the American compilation cd "Kill City 25," and the band played 
in London at the renowned London Water Rats venue. 
Souls of Diotima has performed with such bands as DGM, Obituary, Hatebreed, Folkstone and Vision Divine. Musical influences include 
Dream Theater, Nightwish, Epica, Stratovarius and Symphony X, and others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Souls+of+Diotima">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.