Soul Secret project was born in the summer of 2004 when the guitarist Antonio Vittozzi and the bassist Lucio Grilli decided to join their musical tastes to create a metal band to play Dream Theater masterpieces. Searchin' the missing elements was the hardest task: the first new member was the singer Antonio Barbati, and then the drummer Antonio Mocerino (ex Machine Of Hate) and the keyboardist Giovanni Di Giorgio.

Almost immediatly, the will to arranging Dream Theater covers was supplanted by desire to create some own music, and the first result was the home-made demo (recorded in July 2005)  Never Care About Tomorrow, which contained two songs: Inner War and Eternal Lights. All the vocal parts of that demo was recorded by Agostino Sorrentino, that replaced Barbati on the voice.

Soon work reasons constrain Agostino Sorrentino to leave the band, and subsequently the band decides to part from Giovanni Di Giorgio. That was the most difficult period, even if the research continued.

At last, the two missing members joined the band: Luca Di Gennaro (ex Paradoxa and Glory Revolution as Antonio Vittozzi and Lucio Grilli) on piano and synth, and Michele Serpico (ex Kimera) on voice. It was March 2006.

In this way the band has found stability: a very important thing always missing in those years.

The union of musical influences (including not only Dream Theater, Pain Of Salvation, Pink Floyd, Vanden Plas, Liquid Tension Experiment, Symphony X, Spock's Beard, Tool but also Metallica, Megadeth, Mr. Big  and hard rock and thrash metal bands) and a great will to work, produce 6 songs that compose the first Soul Secret album Flowing Portraits.

Recording sessions started on April 23th 2007 at Orange Bug studios in Naples, with the precious collaboration of Salvio Imparato. Because of health problems, Michele could not begin voice sessions, and vocal sections (lead & backing) have been recorded by Mark Basile  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soul+Secret">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.