Marc Pomeroy is one half of the world-renowned remix team "Jazz-N-Groove Productions" and co-owner of the critically acclaimed record label Soulfuric Recordings.  He also records under the monikers of "Urban Blues Project", "Deepstar" and "Soulsearcher", as well as remixing for everyone from Loleatta Holloway to Busta Rhymes to Sounds of Blackness.

Marc is originally from Gainesville, Florida, and has a colorful musical heritage.  Drawing on influences ranging from Steely Dan to MSFB, he is an accomplished producer, song writer and musician.

Throughout the 80's, Marc honed his technical abilities as both an in demand studio engineer and a producer with a wide range of tastes.  In his first of many record deals, Marc co-produced an album for Nile Rogers Ear Candy label in 1991. It was also during this period Marc began his infatuation with the house sound that was bubbling in America at the time.

With his vast musical interests, Marc has dabbled in many styles of production including Hip Hop and R&B. In 1994 he produced the song "Kill Dem All"  on the Def Jam Double Platinum hip-hop album and movie, "The Show". He has also produced remixes for the likes of Tony Toni Tone, Busta Rhymes, and Zhane.

In the practice of emulating the treasured classics of the '70s & '80s.Marc has spent the better part of his life collecting, restoring, learning, and re-introducing vintage intruments & electronics of all sorts, from classic synths and processors, to Soulfuric's very own 1979 Neve Console. His passion and expertise in this area has made the vision of Soulfuric and Jazz-N-Groove possible.

As a truly versatile writer/producer, Marc's ability to craft catchy hooks and melodies is probably most apparent in 1998's smash "Cant Get Enough" which became a hit all over the globe.

He is most at home in the studio but you can sometimes catch him along side Brian rocking some club somewhere on planet earth. He is a multi-talented instrumentalist, producer, arranger and designer. He is as equally comfortable in front of a mixing board as he is writing lyrics or playing his beloved classic Rhodes, Wurlitzer, or any number of vintage musical instruments. Even designing and physically building a recording studio. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soulsearcher">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.