Soul's Chains’ project was born in Modena in the early months of 2005. After small line-up changes and the first sound experimentation, Ephesian Zap (founder and guitarist) & Orpheus (co-founder and vocalist) completed the band, calling Nihlium (second guitar); Luca Setti (drums), Hel (bass) and Muriel (keyboards/female voice) to join the band. In the beginning, the band mixed gothic and extreme metal in their work; lyrics were highly inspired by Lacrimosa and Cradle of Filth and that made this young band to collect a considerable success in the Emilian area. The first EP was released in 2007 and it was self-titled as “Soul’s Chains”. Seven songs, including Poison PT1 - Running Between Black Flowers - Forever and Never, were extremely appreciated by fans both during live performances and on websites. The band grew up, achieving remarkable positions in musical contests and became visible between (the) bands in the area. During 2008 there were changes of members and only the two guitarists remained: Ephesian Zap and Nihilium, from the original formation. Ephesian Zap, however, continues the songwriting for the next album, while playing in other musical projects such as Gardenia, Ephesian Zap Project and Scarlet Cuptea. 
Later, Zap met Nicholas, who after a few months joined the project "Soul's Chains" with Vehuel and Mr. Superfuck, an old friend of EZ. In 2010 "Darkness Behind Humanity" was released, their second ep and the first to be released and put on CD. The new formation was composed by Ephesian Zap and Nihilium as guitarists, Nicholas as bassist, Vehuel K on drums and the lineup was completed by Mr. Superfuck as vocalist. 
The great harmony of this new formation offered a more aggressive and darker sound. Themes dealt with: religion, wars, introspection, power, hardness of living while also maintaining a Gothic/romantic vein found in the earlier releases. The album sold rather well, but a big curse lived on this band; Mr Superfuck left the band forced by what he denounced in his songs. 
Ephesian Zap decided not to searching for other singers but to play and sing by himself.
The band began to compose songs for the next album but in the end of the summer 2011 Nicholas and Vehuel left for personal reasons, the same was for Nihilium, tired of the numerous changes. So the band continued as a solo project.
After 2 years, and after some new musical experiences (with Abaddon and other bands), Ephesian Zap holding on the project as "One Man Band" released their first full-length album "Disharmony"; a double CD containing 10 unreleased songs and a new remastered version of Darkness Behind Humanity.
Themes of Disharmony continue on the line of the previous CDs, while music mixed in half baroque/half avant-garde and their past dark and aggressive sound. Everything was made by large use of keyboards and guitars.
In Disharmony there's a collaboration with Jo Narcissa, a friend of Ephesian Zap, helping with the lyrics.
 
In 2014, Vehuel come back as drummer followed by Syton on bass and Bennez on guitars, and after som gigs, on 2015, the band started the 10th year anniversary tour in some countries outside Europe. In the meantime the name of the band was changed to “Soul S Chains” and E.Z started to write new music for the new album “Vis Ira Maeror” that later was released in 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/soul%27s+chains">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.