SOULBURNER (COLOMBIA)

SOULBURNER is a colombian death metal band formed in early 1998.
The band were found by Bernardo Garcia and Ricardo González, who shared a common love for Metal. Soon they get aware of their potential to create heavy, devastating riffs; after writing the basic tracks of some songs in which anyone could appreciate the influences of bands such as SLAYER, CELTIC FROST, SEPULTURA and OBITUARY, just to name a few. 

Their first-ever gig was on December 5th, 1.998 at the "Seki-Sano Hall", with LEISHMANIASIS and GORE INSANITY also on the bill and with NEUROSIS INC. as the headliners. This gig could be better described as total live aggression and the band was well received by the public in general. After this one, many other successful gigs have followed, some with high-profile bands, including DESTRUCTION, VITAL REMAINS, AMON AMARTH, INQUISITION, MAYHEM, SINISTER, RHAPSODY and DARK FUNERAL, on their respective dates in Colombia.

RITUAL entered the studio in late October of 1.998 for the recording of a two song demo ("Forgotten Genocide" and "Vanity"), serving as a promo for the specialized radio stations. Some time later, in June of 1.999, a third song titled "Demons Curse" was recorded.

This material became available to the public thanks to the help of NEUROSIS INC., who offered RITUAL to share an split album with them; RITUAL's part was entitled "Pure Sick Metal" (NEUROSIS INC.'s part was called "The Trial").

Early on 2.000, Alejandro Rojas, a top notch drummer (LEISHMANIASIS, UNDER THREAT, TEATRO PANICO), gives a kick in the band’s ass, contributing with fresh ideas for the new material, which became even heavier and absolutely ass-kicking.

The other major change was the adoption of the actual name, SOULBURNER, which reflected more the character of the new style, more oriented to the Death Metal sounds than before.
 
RITUAL Live @ Bogotá 1.999

On March 19th 2.000, SOULBURNER participated on the HALLOWEEN ROCK 2.000 METAL FEST, earning the first-place award among twenty-something local bands, some of them of high caliber. Also notorious are their two consecutive spots on ROCK AL PARQUE FEST 2.000 and 2.001, where SOULBURNER showed the power of their craft in from of a massive audience.

SOULBURNER entered the studio on September 2.000 for the recording of their debut album, "HELLFIRE", which consisted on nine killer tracks and their trademark UNLEASHED's cover, "Execute Them All".

The chosen studio this time was SIRIO PRODUCCIONES, and the band recorded under the engineering of Carlos Franco and Fredy Torres. Due to technical problems (the album was “accidentally” erased and the band had to re-record it all over again!!!), “HELLFIRE” hit stores on April 2.002, with massive support by the Death Metal community. 

SOULBURNER performed shows in cities like Tunja and Cali to promote the album. Since that time, the album has been know as one of the best Colombian Metal debut albums of all time.

The success attained with "HELLFIRE" trespassed boundaries, receiving excellent reviews by the specialized press in U.S.A, Romany, Germany, Italy, Thailand and Chile. The band's music was played extensively on specialized internet radio stations, being often compared to bands like VITAL REMAINS, SUFFOCATION, NILE and KRISIUN, to name a few. SOULBURNER has also appeared on national (“From Colombia With Hate”) and international Metal compilations (Canada's Meathead Records, and various South American compilations).

In the middle of 2.003 the band starts the recording of their 2nd album, something that is viewed certainly as a step ahead in their ever improving sound and overall concept, showing not only a more musically mature band, but a tighter and more corrosive outfit also, featuring better riffs, structures, and overall, better songs.

In early 2.004 personel changes cause a rather long delay, but after some time searching for the best musicians the band starts all over again. This time with a very strong and smoking line-up, consisting of Sergio Ramos (vocals, ex - CANCERBERO), Bernardo García (guitar), Ricardo González (bass) and Sander Bermúdez (ETHEREAL), SOULBURNER unleashed all the blasting power of a live world-class Death Metal act, performing shows in cities like Medellin, Bucaramanga and Ibague, among others. This line-up reaches new heights musically and sonically, while defying non-believers and proving that SOULBURNER has never lost their edge as a live act, on the contrary, they will only get better every time!!

On late November 2.004, SOULBURNER released “LIFE DENIED” a promo CD containing 3 live cuts (taken from Bucaramanga’s show in September that year), and a demo-sample of what will be their new material. SOULBURNER finally released their long awaited follow-up album on August of 2.006, showing a more mature and evolved beast. The icing on the cake was their live show at the largest open-air festival in Latin America, ROCK AL PARQUE in Bogotá, Colombia, in front of thousands of rabid Metal Maniacs, showing the full devastating power of SOULBURNER as a live band.

In 2.007 Diego Melo (ex-NEUROSIS INC) enters as the vocalist for the band. With this new lineup the band performs various gigsall around Colombia during 2.007 and 2.008. Also in 2.008 SOULBURNER starts to write new material for what will be thier third studio album in which the band will show all the experience acquired during all these years; the songs are more intricate and elaborated while retaining their trademark catchiness


SOULBURNER | CHILE | 1996

Our musical Project was born since many years ago, in 1996 to be exactly. With high's and low's, with good's and bad's, SoulBurner has opened way itself between the hard competition of bands that exist here in our city, Concepción; and step by step, in our big country, Chile.

Hard work and witness have been the biggest propose in the work of the 2 oldest and founding members of the band, Ignacio (Guitar) and Claudio (Bass guitar) that without stopping thinking about them musical proposes, continue until today (since more than 20 years of the first idea of the band) doing music. Many have been the musicians' changes, many names have stayed in the history of "Burner" (pseudonym of the band), but the musical line is still intact, delivering the purest Chilean Death Metal.

SoulBurner gives in each musical creation, powerful riffs, that are worn out meticulously for long time before being joined to other riffs, for finally, joining figure for figure, elaborate a heavy material that the band gives in every live recital, with many worry and good sound, for the ecstasy of the public, essential element for the creation of songs, ‘cause as all you know and sounds cliche, the music it mades for the personal delight and largely for the collective delight, that means the public, fans and people in general, that are those who finally day after day, and in every concert of the band, support SOULBURNER.

The last 10th May, the band celebrated 10 years of pure fuckin' death metal creations, the party began with a great concert in Concepción, with friends bands (Distimic Suicide, Kaoscentrica, etc). The event was great, perfect can i say... May 26th 2008, and the NEW CD called BLESSED BY FIRE is ready.

______________________________

SOULBURNER | MEXICO | 2002

Formed in Mexico City by 2002.- Saack (The Winter Solstice Night) Vocals, Chester (Beholding Signs) – Drums, Eduardo Frias (Guitar/ Vocals) combined their interest in Death Metal Style hammered out a balanced attack that fused unique, technical death metal with power tones and a lyrical approach inspired by themselves. 

 The band had the decision to reborn under the name of SOULBURNER with a new musical and lyrical exploration that broke the concept of Beholding Signs. (1995-2000) previous project inspired in multiplex-rhythm blast beat variations.

 Arguably the perfect combination of the old and new school of Death Metal, SOULBURNER blends ferocious power and technical prowess with mesmerizing and dynamic songs, offering a conclusive TECHNICAL DEATH METAL in a New Phase-Era. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soulburner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.