When grey matter turns dark, the result can be unexpectedly heavy and obscure.
Formed in the early 2000s, SoulSteal quickly became one of the most respected and original bands on the island of Cyprus. Defined by a unique mixture of slow and aggressive beats, violently adhered to a softer atmospheric aura, the band engaged the public across the main venues of the island, leading to a significant amount of followers.

Military obligations and studies delayed the release of their first EP “Mirror is a Lonely Place”, which was released in 2009. During that long period of studio inactivity, the band remained present on the live scene with various gigs within the island. In 2011, with an educational resume that many would envy, a total of two PhDs and a Masters degree between the four members, the band released their first full-length work “Answers to Everything”.

Receiving great critical acclaim, and being characteristic as one of the best releases to come out of the island, SoulSteal are now getting ready to leave the island behind, and are prepared to conquer the dark shores of Europe…the heavier, the darker.

Peek from the Pit (UK)
"Answers to Everything is an atmospheric masterpiece of melody, obscurity and heaviness!"

UK Metal Underground (UK)
“…It is clear that this band are masters of majestic gloom…”

Mundo Rock (Chile)
“…A pegadísimo doom of deep and plaintive riffs leaving deep scars around each note…”

Flash Magazine (Italy)
“…The whispers, the long pauses, the deep cavernous voice growls are the magic ingredients of this release….a metaphorical shot and depression which fully describes the essence of the group..."

Atmospheric Magazine (Poland)
"...mysterious and atmospheric...melody is the common denominator..."

Doom-Metal.com
"...incredibly personal sound such a young band has managed to create..." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SoulSteal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.