david is the voice of "i fratelli", the first hip hop group in genoa since 1992, with a homonymous cd for the milan label "microsolcomondopop" (ex "vox pop"), a self produced cd and several tracks on compilation among which "mega hip hop" (saifam/self).

together with "i fratelli", in ten years activity, david's played side by side the top names of the national hip hop performers and others, as sangue misto, sottotono, frankie hi-nrg mc and almamegretta; he's attended to events at radio deejay (hip hop village/forum of assago in milan), 101 network besides perfomances at RAI, match music tv, videomusic and the international festival "coleur cafe" in bruxells. 

Since 2003 david has become a soloist and after publishing the demo "i cinque sensi" (five senses), he got the first award from the erikah badu's, d'angelo's and the roots' label, with a report on the home page of www.okayplayer.com. this event met up with different requests of cooperation by italian artists, among which stood out the featuring with ddp (minoia rec/self) giuann shadai (firstclassmusic.it) and with "soulvillians", the compilation of soulville, where he played beside tony fine and frank siciliano. 

on October 15th, 2005 the first solo cd is to be on the market: "amorestereo".

"amorestereo" appears as an elegant collection of senses and feelings menàge. behind the white cover, made up by the artist himself, you can soon discover inmost sounds rooted in the golden era of motown and spread in experiments of nu-soul sign. the bases, tied up like precious threads, recall the lived up colours of marvin gaye and teddy pendergrass and those more intermittent and actual of remy shand, dwele and anthony hamilton. on this palette, david proposes all his originality in a full and sensual mixture, reflective and figurative where his voice is the inspired instrument mixing up the soul softness with hip hop coarseness, in which the italian language warmth prevails.

the result is a 360° research of a unique style and pathos abundance making "amorestereo" something absolutely new in italy. the cd will be supported by soulville.it and promoted by underground-soul.com, the most important site of independent soul worldwide. at the same time his contribution to the american compilation mixed up by dj come of age will be issued, while it has been already played on PodCast with the dragging "lasciati andare".

Source: http://www.souldavid.it <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Souldavid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.