This page has info for 5 bands named Sound of Silence:
1- Spanish Death / Hardcore
2- Greek progressive/power metal
3- Japanese rockband that is on hiatus since their singer died in a car accident.
4- Melodic Death Metal
5- Indonesian ambient/electronic

1- Sound of Silence is a band from northern-Spain (Asturias) playing an aggressive, dark, melodic and metalic hardcore.Their stuff is original, not the common "death-core" cliche!

Similar bands: Undying, Unearth, Himsa.

Sound of Silence started as a band in the year 2004 by former members from some of the most notorious spanish Hardcore bands from the latest years (Escuela de Odio, Ôkban, Another Day…).

Their first release came in 2005, as a split album with Legacy of Cain, released through the record label Conviction Records. With this album they received killer reviews.

Thanks to that they toured Spain all over and played in many festivals and shows with different bands like Sick Of It All, Walls Of Jericho, Dismember, 100 Demons or Undying.
Their explosive mixture of Scandinavian death metal and American metal places them as one of the most impressive bands in the genre and the most important to emerge from Spain in the last few years.

Already in 2007 the band signed with Underhill, and recorded their debut album –La casa de los lamentos- where the evolution of the band is simply amazing, both in composition and technically, adding to their past influences new ones that relate sometimes with noisecore, math metal and even grindcore, without losing their unique personal sound.

-La casa de los lamentos- is one of the best debut metal albums released in Spain in the past years and proves the band has reached a level that very few ones can match nowadays.

2- Sound of Silence is a progressive/power metal band from Greece. They disbanded back in the 90s after releasing a promo tape in 1993, they recently reformed to release the concept album Spiritual Journey in 2003.

4- Sound of Silence is a Melodic Death Metal band from Rhode Island.  Originally formed under the name of  "Born of Cain" in 2008.  The name change came in early 2009 when former vocalist Brandon Cristostomi left the band and was replaced with Kyle Goncalves. The group has undergone multiple lineup changes; the only members of the original lineup remaining are founding members Jorge Issa(guitars) and Nick DeSimone(bass).  Sound of Silence has one EP titled "Astral Projections," released March 2009.

5- Sound of Silence is a ambient/electronic band from Indonesian. Sound Of Silence began in 2010, and is a solo project from Asyraful Umam made ​​on moods, and creating tunes that tell stories. In the process of creating a song, Sound of Silence lot of inspiration from what is perceived, experiences and expectations. This music is a great way to unwind after a hard day out in our relentless world. "See It, Hear It, and Feel It", entered the list of best albums of 2011 by Jakarta Globe newspaper. You can download for free at  http://misspelledrecords.bandcamp.com/album/mpr124-sound-of-silence-see-it-hear-it-and-feel-it <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sound+Of+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.