Soundscape refers to multiple artists: 
(1) Instrumental progressive rock duo from Boston, Massachusetts. Matthew Kniffin is on bass, Jake Dick is on drums. See discorgaphy below:
Soundscape EP, Mar 2011
Earthbound, Nov 2014
Earthlings, Aug 2017
BC: https://soundscapemusic.bandcamp.com/
FB: http://www.facebook.com/music.soundscape

(2) Soundscape from Marysville, California. 

(3) American progressive rock band from Connecticut. 

Soundscape

Rob Thorne vocals, keyboards
Todd Rose guitar
Scott Waite bass
Lou Caldarola drums.

Formed in 1995, Soundscape released their debut CD “Discovery” in 1997 on the
Angel Thorne Music label and it is available through iTunes, CDBaby, The Laser’s Edge,
and other fine purveyors of progressive rock. Toeing the line between progrock and
progmetal, Soundscape is heavily influenced by Dream Theater, Yes, and Kansas.
A new full length CD “Grave New World” is set to release in September 2008.

Soundscape is a four piece Progressive-Rock group built on the philosophy that in the music industry music is what matters most, and everything else is secondary. Spiritual to thunderous and always precise, their music captures a wide range of expression through soaring melodies and dynamic instrumentation. This high standard of professionalism in composition, musicianship and performance was established in June 1996 with the completion of their first album "Discovery." Containing over 78 minutes of music, the record is a virtual showcase for the band's skill, expertise, and talent for song writing. 12 songs take you on a journey through the life of a young boy into manhood as he comes face to face with the questions and realities of sex, religion, society, politics, drugs and war.

Featuring the soaring vocals and intricate keyboards of Rob Thorne, the guitar wizardry of Todd Rose, the explorative bass of Scott Waite and the imaginative drumming of Lou Caldarola, the live show has been described as a "magical and intense journey," forging the path to a new musical experience that comes as a much welcomed breath of fresh air.

"Grave New World" the follow-up to "Discovery" was recordered in 1998 but never released due to a variety of factors. It has now been digitally remixed and remastered and will be released sometime in 2008. More information will be posted as it becomes available. 

Please visit www.myspace.com/soundscapeofficial for more information.

(4) This comes from the Entlebuch, Lucerne, Switzerland who play progressive funk rock.

Soundscape originally played what they called "Funk-Rock", but have gotten progressively more heavy with time. The band originally consisted of Andrew "Tater" Wissink (vocals), Charles Brooke (bass), Hal "Trevor" Williams (guitar), Jesse Dingle (drums), and James Dingle (sax/rhythm guitar). James left soon after the release of their second album, "Uncertain Shades of Gray".

Discography:

2004 - The Wizard (Original Demo album)
2006 - Uncertain Shades of Gray <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soundscape">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.