Sound Storm was founded in 2002 in Turin, a city in the north west of Italy.The band started composing their own material, with the first three or four tracks finished by the end of 2003.

In October of 2005 the band decided to record six original songs in their own private studio, which resulted in the release of the demo "The Storm Is Coming".

In September 2006 Sound Storm entered again the recording studio to record the new Ep, "Northern Wilderness".
The new self-produced Ep was released on the 1st of February 2007.

During the year 2008 the band spent a lot of time to compose, arrange and rehearse the first full length. The results is Sound Storm's debut album, entitled “Twilight Opera” which has got an incredible high quality production, strings section, a 9-pieces choir.
The album has been mastered at Finnvox Studios by Mika Jussila and released by Rising Records.

On August 30th Sound Storm celebrates the release of the album with a live show at "Ilha Do Ermal" festival, the biggest metal fest in Portugal, with bands such as Blind Guardian, Angra, Sepultura, Korpiklaani, Firewind and many more.

In summer 2010 Sound Storm toured Mexico for the first time: the band played 11 gigs across the country getting and incredible success and many hundreds people were attending each show.

In 2012 Sound Storm have signed a worldwide deal with Scarlet Records for the release of their new album 'Immortalia'. 

Over the years the band have developed a very personal blend of Heavy Metal mixed with a theatrical sense of drama, which was internationally recognised with the release of their critically acclaimed debut 'Twilight Opera'. 

This new chapter marks another important milestone for the band, mixing their wide range of influences in a piece of work perfectly balanced between powerful guitars, magnificent symphonic choirs, gothic atmospheres and baroque melodies, which is definitely worth listening to. 

Recorded, mixed and mastered at Metal House Studio by Ettore Rigotti (Disarmonia Mundi), 'Immortalia' is a stunning concept album on the quest for eternal life, an amazing journey through literature, poetry and history, a collection of songs linked together by the common theme of the immortality of the soul. The evocative artwork was handled by Felipe Machado Franco (Blind Guardian, Rhapsody Of Fire). 'Immortalia' will be released August 28th, 2012. 

Shortly after the band will support Norwegian Gothic Metal veterans Tristania on their new European tour, starting September 13th. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sound+Storm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.