The entity that is Norway's mighty Melodic Black Metal band: Source of Tide first came into being sometime in March 1996. The first six to answer the rallying cry were Sven Tore Dammen (Vox) Atle Høidalen (Guitar) Geir Hovland (Bass) Pendragon (Lead Guitar) Gøran Flåtin (Drums) and Cosmocrator (Keys), and from then on a band was born... As is often the case, the initial line up was not quite the meeting of minds that had first been assumed and there were to be casualties. At the end of their first year and on the eve of their debut recording ("Dawn Of Tides") they were to lose Gøran to a more sedate Norwegian home life. An urgent replacement was needed and luckily found a little closer to home than anyone would have previously guessed, Cosmocrator showing a natural gift for the battery took over for the sessions as well as fulfiling his keyboard duties, much to the delight of all involved. The resulting early gem was brought to life at the now legendary Akkerhaugen Lydstudio, and engineered by Torbjørn Akkerhaugen (this was the exact same winning combination that gave the world that mighty Emperor sound). Wanting to retain their independence as much as was possible the band self-financed and released the record under the banner of the Council Of Nome.With their debut release finally in the can and an underground buzz beginning to build it was time to venture into the live arena, but after only a couple of shows disaster struck again. Due to unrest within the ranks both Sven and Geir decided that it was time to take their leave. Once again we find a band without an essential part of their sound. Or so it would initially seem.. First the problem of the low end was solved with the discovery of local bass monster Targenor, and his inauguration was shortly followed by the arrival of Lord PZ to take care of vocal duties (This name in particular may be familiar to some of you due to his participation in fellow Candlelight signings Peccatum where he has proved himself to be in possession of a quite terrifyingly powerful voice) For a time the line up was complete but as was becoming usual, just as things were coming together the band lost another of it's founding members. Dissatisfied with the musical direction that was being pursued Alte decided to take his leave and was soon replaced by the final piece of the jigsaw puzzle in the shape of Taranis. Fast forward to the summer of 1998 - With a renewed enthusiasm and a finally solid line up Source Of tide return to the studio to record the "An Ode To The Art Of Self Destruction" demo. This time they use a studio that is a little closer to home. It is Symphonique the studio owned by Emperors Ihsahn who also engineers the recording. With no small amount of confidence the band send out a few copies of the demo and await the results. In no time at all Candlelight come back with an offer that is suitable to all and the deal is signed. We now find ourselves in the present day with a completed album in the "can" entitled the "Ruins Of Beauty". Once again recorded at Akkerhaugen Lydstudio", and engineered by Torbjørn Akkerhaugen. The Ruins Of Beauty will be part of the first wave of Candlelight for the new millennium. Watch closely... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Source+Of+Tide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.