*SOUTHERN DRINKSTRUCTION born in Rome from an idea of the guitarist Pinuccio Ordnal in 2005, intending to create a band following the footsteps of early Heavy Metal, Thrash/Death Metal and Southern Rock, combined together.
Going around gigs and shops to stick up flyers with “members for a rough and alcoholic band wanted” written on and the like, one night, while covering the umpteenth club, Ordnal meets a dear friend who tears up his flyer and tells him, pointing to Bastard: “Here’s your singer!”.
Then the so famous “2 years, fuck” begin, among reharsals, line-up changes, curses and alcohol, until they find Eddie at drums.
In the Summer of 2007, helped by Cinghio (The Orange Man Theory / Buffalo Grillz) at bass guitar, they record at Stefano “Saul” Morabito’s “16th Cellar Studios” their first Cd, “Southern Drinkstruction”.
The Ep begins to go around with good results and the name of the band spreads up at once.
As soon as they find a stable line-up with Male at bass guitar, in the Autumn of 2007 they begin their live activity, gig after gig.
They work meanwhile on brand new drunken songs, carrying out the initial idea of centrifuge together Death, Blues, Southern, Trash, Country, Punk, Rock’n’Roll, Doom and so on.
The results are 11 songs bottled into the self-produced full-lenght album “Drink With Us”, out on 11st of September 2009, once again recorded at Stefano “Saul” Morabito’s “16th Cellar Studios” during 2009.
In a few months “Drink with Us” receives good and bad critics, and the four cabrones work hard to promote their dirty rotten album.
In april 2010 the bassist Male, because of food disagreement, quits the band; and here comes on board Zorro, great old friend.
It’s the beginning of a new chapter, IN BEER WE TRUST, DRINK WITH US!*

*CONTACT, INFO, LIVE, MERCHANDISING, MSN:*
southerndrinkstruction@hotmail.it  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Southern+Drinkstruction">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.