There are multiple artists/bands named Soylent Green.

1. a German indie/alternative rock band
2. a moniker used by electro artist, Roman Flügel
3. a short-lived mid-1990s electronic hard rock band from The Netherlands
4. a progressive rock/metal band from Tellingstedt, Germany
5. a hardcore punk band from Phoenix, AZ, United States

1. The German Soylent Green was founded in 1995 in Lower Bavaria by four friends who knew each other from high school. They started writing songs heavily influenced by the grunge and crossover, releasing their first demo, 'Emotional Mind Burst' and a full-length album called 'Temple of the sun'. The year 1998 marked a turning point in Soylent Green’s sound. On their third and fourth albums they shifted towards intensely emotional indie pop/college rock, a sound that matured further on the 2002 album, 'Signals & Sentiments'. Around this time, Soylent Green the band members moved to Munich. Since then, lots of new songs were written and are in the process of being written, some were already recorded as demo versions, some of which are available here on last.fm, where you can also download many of Soylent Green’s other releases. Personnel: 
Robert Pietsch (vox, guitar), Arno Reichenauer (guitar), Thomas Matzies (bass), Sebastian Frenzel (drums).

2. Roman Flügel is a well-known name in the German electronic music scene. Active since the early 1990s, Flügel is a chameleon visiting many styles from ambient/IDM to house, techno, electro and sounds further leftfield. Works under the moniker Soylent Green, but also as Alter Ego or with long time partner Jorn Elling Wuttke. Flügel was a co-founder of the Ongaku, Klang and Playhouse record labels.

3. Soylent Green was a short-lived (1995-1997) hardrock band from The Netherlands. Their only studio album, 1996's Nutrient, was released to some acclaim in the Dutch music press for its exciting combination of hardrock power riffs and electronic music. The band toured The Netherlands and Germany, but then split up due to internal friction. The band was based in Amsterdam, but the band members were originally from around The Netherlands: guitarist Jack Pisters from the southern province of Limburg and frontman Marco van der Aar from the eastern Netherlands, for example.

4. Soylent Green was also a band from Tellingstedt, Germany, that played progressive rock/metal. Line-up: Uli Seidenpfennig (bass), Philip Herberger (keyboards), Sven Nuppnau (drums), Dit (vocals), Artschi (guitar) and Marco (guitar).

5. Soylent Green was a hardcore punk from Phoenix,AZ, United States, in the 1980s, featured on the 'This Is Phoenix, Not The Circle Jerks' compilitation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Soylent+Green">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.