Space Eater was founded in Belgrade, Serbia in October 2004 by Boško “RNA” Radišić (vocals) and Stanislav Šaršanski (guitars). Soon after joined Karlo Testen (bass), Nemanja Pavlović (guitars) and Nikola Roglić (drums). This line up recorded the first demo “Live in Studio 6” and reached the finals in the 202 Radio's Demo Masters Tournament where their performance was stopped by the police due to violent moshing. “Bombs Away” demo was recorded in 2006 with the new drummer Vladimir Bogdanović Điga and was proclaimed “demo of the month” in the April issue of Serbian Metal Hammer magazine. This demo landed a deal with Swedish I Hate Records, and thus the first full-lenght entitled “Merciful Angel” was recorded and released in 2007. In early 2009 the band recorded an 8 track demo for the new album and started searching for a label to release it. Then, on June 3rd 2009 great tragedy struck. Boško “RNA” Radišić and his sister died in a fire in the building they lived in and the band was put on hold. However the band decided to continue and keep the idea which Boško started alive. In came Luka “Tower” Matković (vocals, gutiars) and Marko “Tihi” Danilović (drums) and the band continued as a four piece. This line up recorded the “Aftershock” album using Boško's demo vocal tracks for the existing eight songs and added two new songs to complete the album. It was released by Stormspell Records in 2010 on CD and later by Metalizer records on vinyl. The band then promoted the album by playing numerous gigs across the country and started writing songs for a new release. In 2012 “Ninja Assassin” demo was released and the band started looking for a label to release their new album. In early 2013 Space Eater toured Europe with a new guitar player Đorđe Luković, alongside the band Infest and landed a record deal with PureSteel records from Germany. 2014 saw the release of the “Passing Through the Fire to Molech” album and the band's first video for the song “A Thousand Plagues”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Space+Eater">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.