Space Cadet could be one of three artists/groups:

1) Space Cadet is the solo project of Morgan Woodfall. She has been making dreamy DIY post-rock under the Space Cadet moniker since early 2019, encompassing themes of identity, Bakhtin and the human condition. Her music can be found at https://hazelspacecadet.bandcamp.com/ and on most streaming services.

2) Space Cadet were an Ann Arbor-based rock band founded in 2009.
Their debut, "Another Dimension: The Liftoff EP", was released in February 2011. Their six members met in high school and are currently in college and play some pretty funky, silly music. They like to party and believe that "cars are made primarily for sitting down and driving places". Check them out at 
http://spacecadet.bandcamp.com/ or at a gig. 

3) Space Cadet’s sophomore release on Kirtland Records, Debutante is a thoughtful and timely tribute to the American Princess of today. A collection of works inspired by frontman Ted Levin’s troubled relationship with a girl who wanted more in life than the struggling singer could provide. “There is such an emphasis on financial and material success brainwashed into girls today. It makes it tough for someone like me, pursuing my dream of having the world hear my music, to provide that kind of life.

The band enlisted producer Taylor Tatsch, (guitarist for Ryan Cabrera) to co-produce Debutante. Within a few months the band crafted 12 original tracks and a remake of 80s smash hit Bette Davis Eyes, originally recorded by Kim Carnes. Filled with unforgettable hooks and melodies, Debutante showcases Levins growth as songwriter. Joined by Brad Steiger (bass and vocals), Danny Knight (drums), and Aaron Long (guitar), the band also showcases their growth as musicians.

The new CD still maintains the bands ever present influence of ’70’s groups like, The Cars, David Bowie, and Cheap Trick. “I don’t want the sounds of today to ruin how I remember the sounds that shaped me as a writer growing up”. This can be clearly heard in SC’s first single, a remake of the 1981 classic, Bette Davis Eyes. “It was always one of my favorite songs as a kid and re-doing it seemed to fit perfectly with the whole ‘Debutante’ theme. I wanted to put our stamp on a song that was originally sung by a woman, and recorded with drum machines and synthesizers.

And put their stamp on in it, they did. Kids who have never before heard the song, listened to it on our My Space site. They come out to the shows and say something like I love that Betty Boop song. They have no idea who Bette Davis is. They think shes an ex-girlfriend of mine Im singing about, which I find very amusing.

On the road with Space Cadet, you never know what will happen. One night our drummer threw a broken stick across the stage the stick hit our guitar player in the neck! I looked over at him and there it was, just protruding out of his neck. It was the strangest thing. He pulled the stick out and blood starting spurting all over the place. We had to stop the show for a while, but surprisingly he was OK and I finished the night with an acoustic set.

With the release of Debutante, Space Cadet will continue its intense performance schedule. Over the past two years the band has shared the stage with artists like Bowling For Soup, All-American Rejects, Default, Trust Company, Oleander, The Burden Brothers, Stroke 9, Edgewater and the 03 & 04 Vans Warped Tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Space+Cadet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.