Space Vacation was first conceived by Jay Shapiro in the summer of 2008.  After seeing hundreds of shows in the San Francisco Bay Area, he realized that he had not seen any bands that could play fast heavy music, with vocals you could actually sing along with.  He soon recruited Andy Headrick on drums, formerly of the San Francisco band Walken, and Scott Shapiro, his brother, as singer and guitarist.  With a nod to the galloping riffs of Iron Maiden, the speed of Motorhead and the stick-in-you-head choruses of “On Through The Night” era Def Leppard, SPACE VACATION was born and proceeded to play all over the United States over the coming years to support their self released, self titled debut album. 

SPACE VACATION prides themselves on putting on a great show for fans.  Unlike most San Francisco doom and gloom bands that “let their music speak for itself,” SPACE VACATION is known for smoke and laser shows, inviting crowd sing-alongs and having an overall willingness to do what it takes to create a lasting impression at every show they play, from sold out auditoriums to small clubs and dive bars.  They are not afraid to have a good time and that attitude carries over to the audience who can’t help singing along and getting caught up in the headbanging fun!

In 2011, the Bay Area Metalers decided to add guitarist Kiyoshi Morgan (formerly of Vicious Rumors).  Kiyo’s soaring leads and overall musicianship added a new dimension to the band and allowed for NWOBHM style twin guitar leads to really compliment the vocal melodies that are the band’s signature.  Andy decided to leave the band shortly after recording their second album, HEART ATTACK, and was replaced with Eli Lucas who played with the band for a year before departing to tour with his other band HATCHET.  The band is currently comprised of Scott Shapiro on lead vocals and guitar, Kiyo Morgan on lead guitar, Mark Shapiro on Bass and Cubby Bauman on drums.

SPACE VACATION’s sophomore effort, "Heart Attack" is comprised of hook after hook of powerful melodies and shredding guitar playing that will bring you back to 1984. The album was recorded by Phil Manley (Trans-Am, The Champs) and mixed by Kurt Schlegel (The Melvins, Jello Biafra) at Lucky Cat Studios in San Francisco.

In 2012 SPACE VACATION signed with PURE STEEL RECORDS and is touring in support of the release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Space+Vacation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.