There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Spartan is a 5-piece Power/Death Metal band from Haarlem, The Netherlands, formed in 2007.

Their current lineup consists of the following members:

Jeffrey Rademakers - Vocals
Pieter Vink - Lead/Rhythm Guitar
Nick van Beusekom - Lead/Rhythm Guitar
Mike van Bekkum - Bass Guitar
Frank Bos - Drums

The band was formed by Tom Brons on drums, Kim Bouman playing rythm guitar, Marc Scholtemeijer as lead guitarist and Jeffrey Rademakers on vocals.

In the beginning of 2008, Ronald van Eggelen joined the band on bass guitar. In this formation they started writing the songs that would be featured on their first EP. Halfway through 2008 Kim left the band to move to Danmark, and Pieter Vink joined to fill in the gap. In 2009 Marc decided to take on a different course and also left the band. Later that year Ronald was replaced by Mike van Bekkum and Nick van Beusekom joined the band to take on the role as lead guitarist.

Near the end of 2009 they released their first album For Glory. Many of the songs on that album have been (co-)written by previous members of the band, namely: Kim Bouman (rythm guitar), Marc Scholtemeijer (lead guitar) and Ronald van Eggelen (bass guitar). All the recordings were done at their own studio, and engineered by Pieter.

In July 2010 Tom Brons left the band. The band spent several months getting his replacement Simon Zwart up to speed. In this time they also started writing and recording new songs. Early 2012 they started playing some shows in Holland to introduce Simon and some of their new songs.

During the autumn of 2013, Spartan was invited to join Rotting Christ on their European tour. This proved to be too much pressure for Simon, who left the band. Drummer Mike the Vries of befriended band 'State of Negation' filled in during the tour and stayed on as substitute drummer until a new drummer was found.

On January 2nd 2014, Frank Bos officially joined the band. They are currently working on finishing their first full length album.

2) A goth folk band.

3) A late 70's Canadian prog rock band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spartan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.