There are multiple artists with the name Spawn: 1) Ska punk band from the Netherlands. 2) Straight edge band from Germany. 3) 90s alternative rock band from Buffalo, NY, USA. 4) Death metal band from Germany. 5) A hip-hop MC, previously of Atmosphere, he is now known as Rek the Heavyweight. 6) Thrash metal band from the Netherlands. 7) Dungeon synth act from Italy.

1) Spawn is a high energy brass fuelled skapunk band from the Netherlands, keeping the beat rocksteady and the upstrokes a-skankin'. In October 2016, SPAWN released "Dance of the Lunatics".  "With their third album, they've definitely found the groove and locked it down. "Dance of the Lunatics" is a huge, bouncing, sweaty dance machine perched on 14 legs and having the time of its life." [Louder Than War, 2016] The new album is available on all major streaming and music platforms, such as Spotify, iTunes and Amazon.

2) Spawn was a straight edge hardcore band from Germany active in the mid-90s. The band released a 7-inch (also released on Crucial Response Records) in 1993, and then a full-length album on New Age Records in 1996. They also released a split 7-inch with Feeding the Fire in 1994.

3) Spawn was a 90s three-man rock band from Spawn of Buffalo, NY, United States, who released a five-track CD in 1995 titled "Everybody Shines" on Space-Cat Records. Members included: Steven Galbraith (guitar, vocals), Mark DeVito (drums) and Stephen Clark (bass).
The band shows influences of both the Velvet Underground, and the British "Manchester sound". A video was also released. The band received wide local acclaim, college radio airplay, and occasionally made the trip over to New York City for live shows.

4) Spawn is a death metal band from Berlin, Germany, formed in 1998.

5) Spawn is an MC, now known as "Rek the Heavyweight". A former member of the group Atmosphere. As Spawn he recorded the album "Overcast!" with fellow Minnesota MC Slug. The two split up and Atmosphere is now just Slug on lyrics and Ant on production.

6) Spawn was a thrash metal band from Arnhem, Netherlands, formed in 1995. They released a demo titled "Before the Silence".

7) Spawn was a dungeon synth project from Italy, formed by Mesrael. Released demo "Dodecahedron" and  "For the Blood Is the Life".

8)  Spawn is a MC from Brazil.

9) Spawn is a Japanese trance producer and owner of Japanese trance label 'Shattermind Recordings'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.