1) SPEAK is an Indie Pop band from Austin, Texas.

2)  SpeaK is a Finnish artist making jungle, dnb, and ambient. 

3) Speak, Tam치s De치k is a rap artist, model, and actor based in Hungary 

4) SPEAK, a powerviolence band hailing from chicago

Details

1) SPEAK is a synth pop band from Austin, Texas formed in 2008. The band consists of Troupe Gammage (keyboard and lead vocals), Nick Hurt (guitar and vocals), Joey Delahoussaye (bass and vocals), and Jake Stewart (drums). The band released their debut single Carrie in 2011, and their debut album I Believe In Everything in late 2011.

Speak had its beginnings with Jupiter-4, a band founded by high school friends Troupe Gammage, Jake Stewart, and Nick Hurt. The band became Speak when bassist Joey Delahoussaye joined the group in 2008. In 2010 they won the Austin Music Award for Best New Band and the following year won the award for Best Indie Group. They garnered attention in 2010, when they performed at the 2010 Austin City Limits Music Festival. Their debut EP, Hear Here, was released in February 2010 and garnered positive reviews, with The A. V. Club giving the EP a B+ and the Austin Chronicle giving 4 stars out of 4 saying that Speak is "poised to change the musical landscape." In 2011 Speak accompanied Tally Hall and Casey Shea across a national tour of the United States.

2) SpeaK. http://soundcloud.com/speak for more information.

3) Speak, Tam치s De치k (born May 31, 1976), better known by his stage name Speak, is a versatile talent, rap artist, model, actor based in Hungary. He gained considerable fame when the video for his 2003 anti-war song, Sometimes[3], became popularized through video sharing websites, propelling him to internet sensation. His singing style appears to be derived from spoken word and he is known to make use of backup singers.

4) SPEAK, powerviolence from illinois https://speakil.bandcamp.com for more info <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Speak">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.