There are multiple bands/artists that use this name
1) Spectre, aka Marcello Fraioli (Ain Soph)
2) Skiz Fernando, electronica rapper producer dude.
3) Atmoshperic black metal from Newcastle, England.
4) Technical death metal from the USA.
5) Progressive doom metal from the USA.
6) Black Metal band from Barcelona, Catalonia Spain.
7)Youtuber who does mashup and bijmv genre videos.


1) Giunto alla popolarità come frontman della più celebre band di musica esoterica/industriale del nostro paese, gli Ain Soph, Spectre (alias Marcello Fraioli) non è nuovo ad esperimenti solisti a volte anche più celebrati della sua attività in combo, che lo portano sovente sui palchi fuori dall’italia. E’ difatti nella carriera di one-man-band che Fraioli, nascosto dietro gli occhiali scuri da malinconico rocker capitolino, esprime a pieno il suo “multiforme ingegno”, che negli anni si è anche esplicato anche attraverso una lunga serie di performance art-rock e audio-videoinstallazioni. Spectre ha pubblicato due CD (‘Mantra Volutatis’ e ’10 pezzi facili’) che evidenziano il suo amore per il rock elettrico, la trance, il folk apocalittico e il lounge-sound. Sempre più vicino a sonorità sperimentali e minimaliste, il progetto sonoro di Marcello Fraioli lascia – comunque - benvolentieri spazio alla passione per le cover, con le quali è solito omaggiare artisti italiani e non.

2) Spectre is Skiz Fernando, head of the Wordsound label, in his record producer, rapper and electronica artist persona. He is known for dark, brooding compositions inspired by illbient, trip hop, industrial music, and horror films, and has been described as "the Nosferatu of underground horrorcore". His first album was The Illness ('95), which drew comparisons with the Wu-Tang Clan and Lee "Scratch" Perry, and cemented his reputation in the musical community, and was rated at number 29 on music critic Piero Scaruffi's list of "Best hip-hop albums of all times", with Scaruffi describing Spectre's first three albums as "the hip-hop equivalent of a William Blake poem" He soon began collaborating with Prince Paul (on his Psychoanalysis album), Techno Animal (Vs Reality), Sensational (on Spectre's 2001 album Parts Unknown), and others.
Spectre also released a 90 minute mixtape, RuffKutz, which showcased his new label, Black Hoodz, and featured tracks by Dr. Israel, Sensational, Mr. Dead, and the Jungle Brothers. His second album, The Second Coming was released in 1998, with a third, The End following in 2000.
Psychic Wars was released in 2003, with reviewer Mason Jones commenting "Spectre's world is a dark, dank back alley, with echoes of doom-laden bass pulses and the distant clanks and thuds of a factory on the outskirts of town". German magazine Skug described the album as "Gnackwat for the brain cells". The album featured vocals from Honeychild and was mixed by Pere Ubu's Tony Maimone.


3) Spectre was conceived by Aungier, Wrote and released a demo, and Is working on an EP, entitled "Veins Of The Earth". Spectre plays Atmospheric Black Metal in the vein of early Wolves In The Throne Room, Deafheaven, Ash Borer and the like. Current Lineup is Angier (Composer, Guitars, Main Producer), Skuldafn (Vocals, Lyrics) Anti (Drums, some production). 


4) Spectre is a Black Metal band from Barcelona, Catalonia Spain. Its unclear what year they were formed in. Another project from the guys in Argar/Grim Funeral. To date they have one split cd out "A Grim Funeral for Humanity / Coldness in the Howl" split with Grim Funeral (2004).

Members :
Ur Profanum  : Vocals

Gangreal  : Guitars

Darshan  : Bass

Black'et  : Drums
5) Spectre is a youtuber from canada. His breakout video was Flower Boy BIJMV but he also has more than 300k views on Industry Baby. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spectre">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.