There are 2 bands called Speedtrap:

1) The Finnish Speedtrap is a speed / heavy metal band formed in 2007.

2) The UK Speedtrap are a tight 3 piece alternative Indie rock band, from in and around Congleton, Cheshire, England.
New single Everything I Need is now available from iTunes and Amazon MP3 aswell as other top MP3 sellers.
Speedtrap began when the original Sugarlust split up.  Wedge decided to do something new, taking Ian Holland with him he formed Speedtrap with Steve Williams on Drums.  Ian then left and the long-standing line-up of Wedge on Guitar and Vocals, Stevo on Drums and Jacko on Bass did a lot of gigs, recorded a single, The Oliver Reed E.P., sold 800 copies of it, recorded an album and then split up.  Jacko sadly passed away aged just 50 in 2012.  Wedge then went back to Sugarlust but now on Bass!  One night out with Stevo at a Live & Loud event at Congleton's Cygnet Club led to Speedtrap reforming with Simon Oliver on Bass.  Simon was the former Bassist from Applestation, a band he had been in with Stevo in the 1990's.  He has a record deal as the Dub/Chillout artist Kalabi and brought some serious Bass lines to the band.  In the summer of 2010 Wedge found out that Simon would be moving down South in September of that year so the band bought some studio gear and holed up in Stevo's scrapyard (their rehearsal room) began recording what would become the Odds and Evens E.P.  To begin with the idea was to capture an audio record of Simon's time in the band but by the time Simon had worked his magic, engineering, mixing AND mastering it, the band deceided it was worthy of release.  Stevo then got very busy doing two other bands including the reformed punk band Vomit so Wedge was left with a slot at the Rock On The Rocks Festival and no band!  Recruiting Sam Hancock (Guitarist from The Rittz) on Drums and Boggy (Bassist from Smokin' Babies) on Bass Speedtrap line-up number 4 has been born and are ready to ROCK Rock On The Rocks 2011!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Speedtrap">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.