Speeed was a thrash/groove metal band formed in 1998, from Matawan,New Jersey with a four members lineup:

Aaron Randall - Vocals (Annihilator)
Jack Frost - Guitars (Seven Witches, Marshall Law (UK), Savatage, The Bronx Casket Co., Metalium (Ger), Frost Bite, Bird of Prey, Jack Frost (US), John Macaluso & Union Radio, Farley's Ritual, Belladonna)
Ray Hartmann - Drums (Annihilator, Stress Factor 9, Assault (Can), Random Damage, Nemesis (Can))
Bernhard "Bernie Altmann" - Bass (Spiral Tower, Tragedy Divine)

It was never clear whether the band were together only as a supergroup even though most members at the time didn't have affiliation with any other bands.

Their music is mainly thrash with speed & power metal influences.
Electronica & Industrial influences can also be heard in their only offering:

Powertrip Pigs (1999) [Massacre Records]

They were promoted as an all star band considering the list of reputed bands they've been members.

Aaron Randall was known by his work with Annihilator in 'Set the world on fire' in which people mistook him of having lisp, which was actually due to faulty mic caused by low quality  productions. Most Annihilator fans still believe he had lisp.

Ray Hartmann was Annihilator's drummer for a pretty long time, considering the other musician's stay in the band rarely lasting more than a summer vacation. Actually he was in Annihilator for the longest time not considering the founding & only permanent member Jeff Waters. Hartmann played for Annihilator even after  Speeed.

Jack Frost was known as founding member of Seven Witches & as a member of The Bronx Casket Co.

Bernie Altmann had been a full time member of Spiral Tower a lesser known German Power\Speed metal band.

Anyway the album didn't click, though band's original sound and Randall's aggressive vocals received praise.

The band didn't work together after their only album Powertrip Pigs. Jack Frost continues with Bronx casket Company & Seven Witches & Bearnie Altmann is still the bassist of Spiral Tower <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Speeed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.