SpenDoe comes from a family of football players, hailing from Santa Cruz, California. He was told
several times to join his family in sports since many were local champions, but his inspiration lies in
music.
With his recent release SERVIN and five-track EP released by Done Deal Digital, he makes waves in
the California music scene. He has collaborated with artists and producers like Krazy (504 Boyz),
Young Bleed, DJ ULTIM8M, Tazzah P, FMZ, The Fast 1, Rankin Scroo, Tavares Daize, Day Day, Sureet
Sandhu, Maniak, Willie Rich, and others.
Moreover, he has been featured on songs with Harm from The Rich, Baby S, Mozzy, The Jacka,
Juvenile, C-Dubb, and Lil’ Flip. He has recorded and produced, releasing solo albums, group albums,
singles, and compilations. However, the journey to becoming SpenDoe “the artist” was not a breeze!
He grew up with his Grammy, who took care of him after his parent’s separation. He spent much of
his time in the streets with people twice his age; some were musicians and rappers.
When he turned twelve, he found his perfect toy, the DJ Quik Tape belonging to his father. He
started freestyling and rapping with Quik’s Groove instrumentals.
He had a troubled childhood, and experienced several hardships alone. Since he was facing all
adversities and challenges alone, it shaped him into a very resolute and refined human.
Many ups and downs were what SpenDoe experienced through his teenage years. But the loss of his
mentor/producer Maniak was a huge personal and emotional blow. He worked in the studio,
relentlessly since Maniak liked him for his exceptional talent.
Later, another loss of his friend and rhyme partner Kaoz the Assassin took a mental toll on him. He
was feeling forlorn and dejected, that’s when his songs also projected his sense of loss and
vulnerability.
With perseverance and hard work, he made it into the music scene with his diverse style of music
and catchy tunes. SpenDoe drives his inspiration from artists like DJ Quik, Dr Dre, C-Bo, Lil Keke, No
Limit Records, and Pete Rock & CL Smooth.
He has an eerie affinity with classic horror movies and has watched many old school horror movies.
An escape from the world around him, he will often dive into binge-watching movies if given the
opportunity. He seems to be an old soul, despite being young. His calm and philosophical approach
to life wasn’t always there early on.
SpenDoe’s music is available on various streaming platforms such as Spotify, Apple Music, Amazon
Music, Tidal, Deezer, Napster, YouTube, SoundCloud, etc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spendoe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.