Spew was an Industrial Punk party band based out of Minneapolis/St. Paul.  Formed in 1999, their songs are a mix of Industrial and Metal, with socially conscious lyrics. 

Their debut album, Statistic, was released in March of 2000, with Aaron Spew going Vocals/Guitar/Programming and Wil Spew on Bass.  Other contributors to the Statistic album include Blaknite-X, Guide, Binary and Junky.

After selling a couple hundred CDs over the internet, Aaron and Wil decided to put a real band together and start gigging.  They enlisted Jive Midnight on guitar, DJ Romanoff on Keys and Nate Dogg on Drums.  Their debut show was March 6th, 2001 at the Red Sea in Minneapolis.

Since Spew began gigging, they went through numerous lineup changes. First to go was DJ Romanoff, replaced by CaO (aka Limey). Limey was the longest tenured keyboardist for Spew, and created many memorable keyboard riffs.  It was around this time that Spew added a sixth member, the man in the monkey mask, BBX on percussion.

In the middle of this initial "changing of the guard", Spew released their second album, Sacrifice EP.  It contained 5 original songs, and 12 remixes of those songs (remixed by Aaron, Limey and Wil).

In December of 2002, Nate Dogg and Spew parted ways.  Filling his shoes, the self-described drum snob, Siren.  The combination of Aaron, Wil, Jive, Siren, BBX and Limey was the longest lasting, approximately a year.

Spew continued to play shows locally, drink tons of Miller High Life and write new songs.  They also continued to tweak the configuration in the band.  In 2003, Xiv replaced BBX, but added keyboards to BBXs rig for an unusual keyboard/percussion mix.  A few months later, Limey left and was replaced by Jez, formerly of Death Toll Odometer.  By the end of the year, Jez was jettisoned for new guy, Dr. T.  

This began the unravelling of Spew.  After Spew drove Dr. T to alchohol rehab in early 2004, they struggled to find a replacement.  By August, Xiv had left the band, and stuck in the unfavorable position of trying to fill 1/3 of the empty spots in the band, they opted for reorganization.  Wil moved to keyboards and samples, and Nugget was brought in to play bass.  Spew continued to write (and drink), but failed to find a second keyboardist.  In November of 2004, Spew officially called it quits.

Many of the former members of Spew got together in February of 2005 for a final show.  They played two one hour sets at famed local bondage/goth club, Ground Zero.  Nate Dogg, Limey, Xiv & Dr. T all gave a helping hand in the final show (which was an unmitigated success).

After Spew, Aaron and Xiv have moved onto Gabber Nullification Project, while Jive, Wil and Nugget briefly formed the band Inside The Machine.  Limey's current projects include Puss Puss, absinthmonkey, Kid Chupacabra and Systole Vs. Diastole (incidentally, with Aaron).

For the Spew who released "For Whom The Bell Tolls" on the Metallica cover album, check out Carbon 12. The first listed Spew received permission to use the Spew name from Steve Tushar of Carbon 12), <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.