French progressive metal band created in 1999.

The early beginning of Spheric Universe Experience dates back to 1999, when guitarist Vince Benaim decided to create a progressive metal band together with his friends Sam (on drums) and John Drai (on bass). The band did some local gigs in and around the southern parts of France, going by the name of Gates of Delirium. 
They knew that they limited their own repertoire by not incorportating vocals and keyboards, so by 2001 keyboardist Fred Colombo entered the band together with vocalist Alex. Now going by the band name of Amnesya, the guys did lots of liveshows and one demo CD. 
In August 2002, the band split because of musical disagreements leaving Vince, John and Fred to continue under the name of Spheric Universe Experience. 
During the next 8 months their passion for composing led them to write a complete album, which they recorded at home as a demo in April 2003 with session vocalist Franck Garcia, who came in just a few days before the recordings began. The vocals were recorded in a professional studio, and although Franck didn't have much time with the band prior to recording it, the result is very convincing, which is why he now have joined the band fulltime. The 2003 demo, "The Burning Box", was sent to Intromental Management in Denmark, who immediately fell in love with the bands sound, and decided to offer them a management-deal. 
With drummer Volodia Brice (Kitto, Frdric Lpe, Stphan Forte...), the band began recording the final album, "Mental Torments", in August 2003.
The cover artwork has already been done by famous Swedish artist Mattias Norn (www.progart.com). Early 2004, Volodia Brice decided to give up with SUE for personal reasons. The band immediately started to search for a drummer. During spring 2004, Guillaume Morero became the new drummer of SUE.
The band has been playing for 8 months with this line up. However, at the end of year 2004, there is a new change on drums: Guillaume Morero is substituted by Nicolas "Ranko" Muller, who is already recognized as an excellent drummer with his band Artefact. His huge technical skills have actually caught the attention of the band. SUE is now ready to present his first album live ("Mental Torments" in USA - the album released on February 21st 2006 with "Nightmare records". This version include one exclusive bonus track for the American audience only)!. 
The band had the great opportunity to play as opening band for world-famous rock band Scorpions in September 2005. S.U.E. also opened for the former Scorpions guitar-heroe Uli Jon Roth in Paris. Now the french proggers are working on their second album that they'll start recording in May/June. 
S.U.E released their second album, called Anima, on 23rd April 2007.
And...the new third album of the band, called Unreal, came out on 19th May 2009 :) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spheric+Universe+Experience">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.