There are seven bands with the same name:
1. Japanese J-Pop group "Sphere"
2. Norwegian Cyber/Modern Metal band "Sphere" Sphere (NO)
3. Polish Death Metal band "Sphere"
4. American Jazz Quartet "Sphere"
5. Czech Metalcore band "Sphere"
6. A female trip-hop singer
7. A Japanese shoegaze band
8. American Jazz Quintet from Detroit "Sphere"


1. Sphere (スフィア) is a Japanese pop idol unit formed by four voice actresses affiliated with Music Ray'n. The group made their major debut in April 2009 under Lantis with the single "Future Stream" which was used as the opening theme for the anime Hatsukoi Limited. Helped by the popularity of Tomatsu Haruka (known for her role as Nagi in Kannagi) and Toyosaki Aki (known for her role as Hirasawa Yui in K-ON!), "Future Stream" reached #22 on the Oricon weekly charts. Their second single, "Super Noisy Nova" reached #14 on Oricon charts, rising their popularity. In December 2009, Sphere released their debut album "A.T.M.O.S.P.H.E.R.E" but it did not include their third single "Kaze wo Atsumete / Brave my heart".


2. Sphere (http://www.facebook.com/sphereofficial) was formed in Oslo, Norway early summer of 2012 by Isak Haugan (Wheels of Rust, Loga) , Marius Strand (Black Comedy), Michael Hebo (http://www.youtube.com/user/cataclysmichael) , Bjørn Dugstad Rønnow (Trail of Tears, Sevenfield, Wheels of rust) and Øystein Sundsbø (Vanishing Void).
In October the same year Sphere recorded their debut album "Primordial" in Strand Studio, and it was released September 19th 2013.


3. Sphere is a Polish death metal band founded in February 2002 by Bolek & Cthulhu (guitars), Th0rn (drums), and Jasiek (vocal). Their first shows were filled with cover songs. Jasiek and Bolek left the band in the fall of 2002, shortly after their debut. A new guitarist, Lechu, and bass guitar player, Zeras, brought new inspiration to the band and they began writing original material. However, after writing only 3 new songs for an unfinished demo, Lechu and Zeras left the band. The remaining members slowly but surely continued to write new material and recruit new members. They played many shows between the fall of 2003 and spring of 2004, with bands such as Demise, Pyorrhoea, April Ethereal, Spiral Madness, Hellfire, and Atropos. Sphere's first official demo was released in the summer of 2004. Despite their success the lineup still continued to change, but has remained relatively stable since 2005. They released their first album Damned Souls Rituals through Empire Records in 2007. They are currently five members: Analripper (vocals, formerly of Pyorrhoea), Cthulhu (guitar), Lukas (guitar), Burning (bass), and Th0rn (drums).


4. Sphere is a four-piece American Jazz Quartet created in the first place as a tribute band for Thelonious Monk. The members are Gary Bartz (tenor saxophone), Kenny Barron (piano), Buster Williams (bass), and Ben Riley (drums). Ex-members include Charlie Rouse (tenor saxophone).


5. Sphere is a young Czech metalcore crossover band, from Šumperk. They released their first EP album in 2010, called Mutiny. Their succes raising, playing concerts all over Czech Republic and making new songs.  They were formed in 2008, First members were Petr Šuška, Jakub Machoň and Jan Eliáš. In 2009 Michael Prchal joined to the band as a vocalist, few weeks later joined Jaroslav Fojtík. In this formation they were played some concerts. Because of some arguments inside Sphere, Jaroslav Fojtik left the band. New guitarist was Jakub Novák. In this formation they're record their first 5 songs album Mutiny.

Members:
Michael "Prchyz" Prchal - vocals (leader)
Petr Šuška - guitar
Jakub Machoň - bass
Jan Eliáš - drums
Jakub Novák - guitar
Ex guitar - Jaroslav Fojtik


6. Sphere is a female trip-hop singer.


7. Sphere is a shoegaze group from Japan. They formed in 2004, and signed to Tetrahedron records in 2007. They have three releases:
"Echo and Narcissus" — 2008
"Separation and Diffusion" — 2009
"syvyys" — 2011
Band members are:
KIYOSHI - Bass, Pedal, Synthesizer
Sachiko Ishibashi - Vocal, Piano
Ryutaro Ishibashi - Drums
Makoto Gomi - Guitars, Programming


8. Sphere is a five-piece American Jazz collective group from Detroit, that recorded the album "Inside Ourselves" in 1974 on the legendary label Strata Records. The members are Larry Nozero (Tenor Saxophone, Soprano Saxophone), John Dana (bass), Jimmy Peluso (drums), Keith Vreeland (Electric Piano) and Eddie Nuccilli (Trumpet, Flugelhorn). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sphere">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.