The Spin Doctors is a rock group from New York, USA, best known for its 1992 hits, "Two Princes" and "Little Miss Can't Be Wrong", which charted at #7 & #17 on the pop chart, respectively. The album that included those songs, 'Pocket Full of Kryptonite', sold poorly until MTV and radio began playing those singles. The album eventually went gold, receiving another boost in sales after the band appeared on Saturday Night Live in October 1992, and it ultimately sold five million copies in the U.S., peaking at #3 on the Billboard top 200 album chart. The band also made an appearance on 'Sesame Street', singing a modified version of "Two Princes" that emphasized the importance of sharing.

The current members are Chris Barron (lead vocals), Anthony Krizan (guitar and vocals), Aaron Comess (drums) and Mark White (bass). The history of the Spin Doctors can be traced back to the late 80s in New York City, originally as a band called Trucking Company, which included Canadian guitarist Eric Schenkman, John Popper, and later Chris Barron. Barron was John Popper's Princeton, New Jersey high school friend. Popper left this side project to focus on his main gig with rock group Blues Traveler full time. With a name change to Spin Doctors, as well as the addition of Aaron Comess and Mark White, the classic lineup was in place by the spring of 1989.

Recorded from August to December 1990 at both the famous Power Station studio in NYC as well as the RPM Studios, NYC and ACME Recording Studios Inc. in Mamaroneck, NY, the band released 'Pocket Full of Kryptonite' on August 20, 1991. Experiencing a slow burn of sorts in terms of success over the next few years, the band released the singles "Jimmy Olsen's Blues", "Little Miss Can't Be Wrong", "How Could You Want Him (When You Know You Could Have Me?)", "Two Princes", and "What Time Is It?", managing serious chart success in both the U.S. and the U.K. Their sound incorporated shades of contemporary college rock and underground power pop as well as more indie and blues rock styles.

'Turn It Upside Down' (1994) was not as successful as 'Kryptonite', although it did sell a million copies. Its second single, "You Let Your Heart Go Too Fast", was a modest hit (#48 on the pop chart). Shortly after the release of Turn It Upside Down, original guitarist Eric Schenkman left the band, citing both musical and personal differences. He was replaced by Anthony Krizan. Fans feared, for good reasons, that the group had somewhat stalled creatively.

The follow-up, You've Got to Believe in Something (1996), sold poorly and the band lost its record contract. Guitarist Krizan also left the band following its release, for reasons that remain relatively unknown. He was replaced by Eran Tabid. Also during this time, Ivan Neville joined the band on keyboards. In 1998, the band signed to Uptown/Universal and released Here Comes the Bride in 1999. During the recording of Here Comes The Bride, Mark White left the band. The bass tracks on the album were finished by original band member Aaron Comess.

During the tour supporting Here Comes The Bride, Chris Barron lost his voice due to a rare form of vocal cord paralysis. Keyboardist Ivan Neville took over vocal duties for a few dates, but the band eventually cancelled the remainder of its tour, crippling sales of the album. Chris' voice came back in late 2000, where he began performing with his band Chris Barron and the Give Daddy Five.

The Spin Doctors remained stagnant until 2001, when the closing of the famous New York City club Wetlands brought the original four members back together. The band started playing one-offs and eventually recorded an album, Nice Talking To Me, released on September 13, 2005. So far, the album has yet to be met with much commercial success.  They have also made a guest appearance on the children's book and its accompanying album by Children's Author/Artist Sandra Boynton singing "Tantrum". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spin+Doctors">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.