The band SPINAL CORD originates from the town of Busko Zdroj and started playing as a unit in August 1999. The music and style slowly evolved and began to take shape to become the bands own style. In April 2000 SPINAL CORD began work on a three track promotional demo "A.D.2000" in Lublin's Hendrix Studio. The recordings were looked over by Arkadiusz (Malta) Malczewski. At the same time Michal Nowakowski gave the band the opportunity to play their first big concert on "Behemoth's Millenium Tour 2000", of which BEHEMOTH, DEVILYN, and NOMAD were all a part. At the beginning of June, amongst one of the last recording sessions of "A.D.2000", Spinal Cord supported VADER live in Lublin. By the end of June, when the final recordings were being completed for the promotional demo, Grzegorz Piwkowski mastered the work. This followed into two live concerts with Chech band PANDEMIA and then in Rzeszow with TRAUMA, DECAPITATED, and ASTAROT. It was the last concert Spinal Cord played in the year 2000. In 2001 the band played live with BEHEMOTH and ECLIPSE. Throughout this time material was being gathered for a complete album, and by the end of 2002, the band decide to enter the studio to record. Recordings began in november 2002 at the Screw Factory Studio in Debicy, and finished near the end of december. The recordings were overseen by Janusz Bryt and included 11 tracks and an intro, adding up to 35 minutes of music. With the start of the year 2003, Spinal Cord signed a 3 album deal with Empire Records. The first, entitled 'Remedy' was released on May 25th with issue 3 of Thrash'Em All magazine. Within the Empire Invasion Tour 2003 in June we played two concerts (Lublin, Lodz) as well as a string of concerts all around Poland. In 2004 a few important transformations occurred, namely a change in the bassist. Novy (Vader, Dies Irae) took the place of Boba. In March we played a concert at the prestigious festival Metalmania 2004. In August, American label CRASH Music Inc. released SPINAL CORD debut album "Remedy". In September, the band recorded some new material in the Screw Factory studio in Debica under the supervision of Janusz Bryt, and the mastering done by the brothers Wieslawscy in the Hertz Studio. The albums release is planned for December 2004. Since mid-2007 NOVY (EX-VADER) has joined the SPINAL CORD ranks as their new bassist/vocalist. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spinal+Cord">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.