The Basement 
On a black winter’s day in January 2006 Spirit of the Future Sun,
was born in the Future Sun Camp in Alfdorf, GermanyInitiating.
members and drink-a-lots were Philipp Frick (ex- Immortal Rites
Mirko Rack (ex- Caddyshack) and Christoph Kinkel)
(ex- Haunted Gorge). Shortly after Aiko Semler joined the
band and by the end of the year the circle of the Future Sun
was closed by Benni Weimar (Ex-Agoknight). In January 2009 we had
a short eclipse of the Future Sun as Christoph decided to leave
the Band, caused by further education in his job. We thank him and
wish him all the best on his way. Patrick Betz joined the band
one month later and closed the circle again.

The Name 
The Name is based on a very old traditional Chinese Legend
which is still alive and has been narrated for hundreds of years.
Imagine your guardian ghost deep within your heart that guides you
through this darkening world, your Spirit of the Future Sun.

The Music 
A fusion of integral rock and modern melodic death metal elements.

The Demo 
In spring 2007 we entered the Audiospezialist studio in Bittenfeld
and recorded with our Producer Martin Schmidt a six track demo
called “The Orchid of Jin Shan” which saw in June light of day.
The feedback was so great, the 200 copies were sold out in only days.

First Show 
On the 6th August 2007 we had our first live show, 1300 people
going crazy near our home town in Schwäbisch Gmünd. Since then
the shows keep on running and we are glad to have shared the stage
with acts like Ektomorf, Hatesphere, Sinister, Evocation or our
neighbour brothers Bleeding Red to only name a few.

The Fans 
Several members of the Future Sun collected over 10 years
experience in other bands, but never had such an incredible and
breathtaking admission from the beginning by such a crowd of
nice people coming to our concerts and supporting us in this way.

The Booking 
We are glad to advise you, that we have signed a booking contract.
If you wanna catch us, follow the link down below.

The Labels 
We have written 11 new qualified songs in our Future Sun Camp
for our first full length album which is titled “The Constellation Park”.
Producer Martin Schmidt recorded, mixed and mastered this
unbelievable result in his Audiospezialist Studios.
Labels with a suitable offer are welcome!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spirit+Of+The+Future+Sun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.