After the demise of Cold Embrace, where he had sung and played bass, Andreas Libera wanted to form a new group in mid 2008 under that name with the intent of establishing a more epic and melodic brand of music than his former outfit. 
Having toyed with his idea for around two months, Andreas joined forces with former Deceptive Silence-singer Jan Eichelbaum to flesh out new songs that, once unleashed online in 2009 under the title A New Doom Is Rising, enjoyed great response among the dedicated. Guido Preußner, drummer in Freakadella and The Name, took interest in the duo and hooked up with them in order to throw his progressive groove into the mix.
Come summer 2009, Spirit Descent were ready to record their debut Doominion at Rosenquarz Tonstudio Lübeck, renowned for forging the sonic excellence of heavyweights like The Lamp Of Thoth, Warning, The River, Solstice, Extorian, Spancer and Isen Torr. Joachim Folta from Subcutane, who topped the album with his guitar solos, sadly passed on the offer of full time membership in favour of his professional job. “Doominion” trodded along traditionally heavy, sluggish and a tad proggy with lush clear vocals and a warm, authentic production. Nobody reinvented the wheel here, but a first step was taken - a large one considering the enthusiastic response it received: 10/10 points in Doom Metal Front Zine and at Doomantia, 8.5/10 in Rock Hard Germany amongst others. Consequently, thriving label Eyes Like Snow took over business matters.
After his fruitless search for a second guitarist, Libera finally found a brother in mind with Jan Fischer, who completed the line-up alongside bass player Andreas Schiffmann. Thus the five-piece were set on upping the ante with their second effort, which was once again recorded and produced at Rosenquarz in the early days of 2011. Titled Seven Chapters in A Minor, the album is just that: seven songs as one to dodge platitudes and kick Heavy Metal's latter-day mopes in the teeth. It was released by PsycheDOOMelic  Records.
In 2011 Dimitrij Titenok replaced Jan Fischer and Jesco-Bernd Wolter Andreas Schiffmann on bass.

Discography :

A New Doom Is Rising - Demo2009  
Doominion - Full-length2010
Seven Chapters in A Minor - Full-length  2012   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spirit+Descent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.