SPiT LiKE THiS is a band from London, England that was formed in 2002.

Spit Like This (represented usually as SPiT LiKE THiS or abbreviated to SLT) is a four-piece rock band which plays their own original music. Not properly fitting into any single genre, they have variously been described as goth, glam, punk, rock, metal, and horror-goth-glam-punk. Shock’n’roll (a largely imaginary genre) has also been suggested as another arbitrary description of their music. The band is currently best known for their theatrical live performances featuring severed mannequin heads, strobe lights, smoke, whips, simulated oral sex, fake blood, one-off guitar solos, and audience sing-alongs.

The band cite their collective influences as: “Sex, Freedom and Death. Visually, artistically and musically inspired by the following: The Rocky Horror Show, Rob Zombie, Alice Cooper, Adam Ant, T-Rex, Queen, The Cramps, Quentin Tarantino, 70's B-Movies, 80's Teen Movies, Hard Rock, Heavy Metal, Gothic, Glam, 80's Pop, Burlesque and Anything Else that may tickle our fancy...”

(Regarding their sound): “SPiT LiKE THiS are proud to have their own unique sound and vision which we define as GLAM PUNK ROCK BUT, at a push, put the following bands in a blender and we - somehow - emerge. In no particular order: The Rocky Horror Show, Alice Cooper, Rob Zombie, Motley Crue, Metallica, T-Rex, Queen, Bowie, Adam Ant, Def Leppard, The Cramps, The Wildhearts. Hell, we sound like none of the above so make you're own mind up!”

2002

SPiT LiKE THiS is officially formed by LORD ZiON and ViKKi SPiT. Zion had been working on the idea of starting a new band since 2000, but it was not until this point that Vikki was enlisted and the name SPiT LiKE THiS was used for the first time.

There are two opposing versions of the story behind the band’s name. Both versions agree that Zion and Vikki had a spitting contest on the night they decided to form the band. Vikki asserts that she then taught Zion to spit properly, saying, “No, spit like this…”, while Zion asserts the exact opposite to be true, and claims that it was he who uttered the words ‘Spit like this’.

At the band’s inception, their logo, The Slut – was a naked woman in the crosshairs of a gun sight, based upon one of Zion’s tattoos. A similar image, minus the crosshairs, had represented one of his previous bands, ‘King Bitch. 

For the next eight months Zion and Vikki struggled to get the band off the ground with no money, no help and no home. But eventually – thanks in no small part to the income derived from selling Vikki's used panties on eBay - they managed to fund their first EP, ‘The Pop Shot!’ which was released in August 2002. The EP takes its name from the male climax much beloved of hardcore porn movies.

Esoterica provided the most memorable review of the EP, including the line: “If it were given human form, this here silver disc would have broken one of your windows, ordered a pizza and been sick on the cat before you even had it out of the packet.” Sleazegrinder’s review wasn’t far behind though, with “…it's just an endless download of electric pleasures…”

Zion and Vikki founded Vagabond Records as a label for their music, but changed the company’s name to Megabucks Music before the release of ‘The Pop Shot!’

They also founded the notorious smellyourmum.com website, and created a range of offensive t-shirts sold through the website, to fund their plans.

2003

‘The Pop Shot!' was receiving good reviews, and with a little more cash coming in, they recorded their second EP, ‘Anarchy For Two’, (released 30th January 2003) which charted their lives from the formation of the band until that point. The title reflected the anarchic lifestyle Zion & Vikki were living at the time, and suggested anarchy as the meaning of life (playing on the words ‘Anarchy Four Two’, referring to the meaning of life in the Douglas Adams’ Hitch Hiker’s Guide to the Galaxy books). It was released to rave reviews. Sleazegrinder led the pack this time, advising readers to: “Watch these cats, they threaten to mutate into wild new shapes and sounds at any minute."

SPiT LiKE THiS attracted the interest of D Records (owned by Douglas Mew - founder of Chrysalis) who offered the fledgling band a 5 album deal. They refused, feeling that it was too soon to be tied to producing albums when they lacked the means to play their material live. However, before they could start playing live, there was the small matter of finding a drummer and a guitarist who were up to the job. In the space of just two weeks, drummer ViLE GiLEZ and original guitarist Stevie Lee were installed, together with rhythm guitarist/keyboard player Wank Sinatra, and rehearsals began for the band’s debut.

SPiT LiKE THiS performed together onstage for the first time at the Metro, London, on the 5th May. By the end of the year, the band had played ten further gigs, in London, Croydon, Crawley and Kingston, and was already developing a loyal following.

2004

The band continued to play gigs around London & the south east, adding Margate, Maidstone, Chatham, and Romford’s The Tek (which would go on to become one of their regular bookings) to their roster. They also began to play further afield with bookings in Birmingham and Nottingham, winning ever-increasing numbers of fans and developing their live show.

SPiT LiKE THiS released their first EP as a band, ‘Dragged Kicking & Screaming’, on 18th August 2004. This EP featured the debut appearance of a new logo, The Skullox (two crossed Warlock guitars surmounted by a skull), which replaced the original Slut logo. Again, underground reviews were highly complimentary: "Slutty Music for Slutty People. Interested yet? Spit Like This are a sleazy, dirty, trashy band who will grab you by your balls until you pass out. This CD is a way of life. The songs are explosive and impulsive and extremely infectious.”

SPiT LiKE THiS announced the appointment of their first manager, Allan James (Numinous Music Group) on the 17th September.

On the 5th October, the band was voted ‘Trashiest Band in the UK’ at The Underworld, Camden. The competition was organised by Acey Slade as part of Trashlight Vision’s tour, and won SPiT LiKE THiS the honour of opening for Trashlight Vision that night, amongst other goodies. Other gig highlights included support slots with The Damned, Rachel Stamp, and Crash Kelly. All told, the year featured 25 live shows.

December brought more popular acclaim, when the Reader’s Poll in KERRANG! Magazine, voted SPiT LiKE THiS # 8 in the ‘Best Unsigned Band’ category.

2005

The band’s first fully distributed EP, ‘Sleaze Sells...But Who's Buying?’ was released on the 31st May, and shot to #1 on Amazon and Number 8 in the Rock Charts. The title was a play on the title of the 1986 Megadeth album, ‘Peace Sells…But Who’s Buying?'

Reviews ranged from the sublime: “Spit Like This "Dragged Kicking & Screaming", 10 out of 10 stars. Sleaze down your throat." (Gitzine, February 2005), to the ridiculous: “Anyway, the 5 man glam-gang offer up three tracks of gooey glitter rock here, brash and brassy and catchier than the crosstown bus at quitting time. Soundwise, divide Desolation Boulevard era Sweet with “Electric Barbarella” era Duran Duran, multiply by Doctor and the Medics, toss in a liberal dose of that fairy dust that strippers wear, and you’ve nailed the b-movie disco massacre scene soundtrack that is Spit Like This. “Rebel Lover” is the most neon number on deck here, but all three will have you turning Japanese in no time." (Sleazegrinder.com, November 2004)

After ‘Sleaze Sells…’ was completed, Wank Sinatra was fired from the band amid allegations of theft and deception, and the band became a four-piece. With the material on the new EP moving towards a rockier, punchier sound, it was decided there was no need for a replacement behind the keyboards.

‘Dragged Kicking & Screaming’ was re-released on 28th November, this time with full national distribution, thanks to the success to ‘Sleaze Sells…’

Live appearances continued unabated, with 24 gigs throughout the year. New conquests included Gravesend, Bristol, Dagenham (The Tek 2), and Brighton, and brought support slots with Wednesday 13 & Fozzy.

A media blitz ran from October 2005 through to March 2006, during which SPiT LiKE THiS appeared in numerous publications, including Italian rock magazine, Flash (Issue #200, 5th October 2005), Kaleidoscope (Issue #20, November 2005), Skin Deep Magazine (Issue #127, 8th November 2005), the immensely popular Bizarre Magazine (Issue #107, 29th February 2006), along with Total Guitar (Issue #145, February 2006), Powerplay (Issue #173, March 2006), Organ, Devolution (Issue #8), and Bubblegum Slut. They were even mentioned on the UK's longest running soap opera, Coronation Street.


2006

March 2006 saw the release (with full UK distribution) of ‘SCARY TALES: The Collection’ - a 21-track, 77-minute, back-catalogue CD, containing all the material they had released to date. ‘Scary Tales’ was devised to prime new fans with everything they needed on one disc, as copies of the original EPs were now scarce.

The band parted company with manager Allan James in June 2006.

SPiT LiKE THiS played 18 further gigs in 2006, adding Eastbourne, Reading, Ryde, Liverpool, and Coventry to their territory. The reduced schedule reflected the time the band were spending on writing and rehearsing material for their debut studio album, tentatively titled ‘A Disaster in the Making’.

The departure of guitarist Stevie Lee was announced on the 11th October, but Lee remained with the band until a replacement was found. There was no animosity between him and the band. Newcomer CYNDi ROTT picked up his trademark Greco Iceman, and stepped up to take Lee’s place, playing his first gig with the band at the Pressure Point, Brighton, on Friday 15th December.

2007

The first half of 2007 saw the band play a flurry of live gigs. They also continued writing and rehearsing material for their debut studio album, which had been postponed from 2006 when Stevie Lee announced his intention to leave the band.

In April, the band appeared in a pilot TV show, Club Chaos, presented by Gary Bushell. The show never aired.

After a lengthy search the band finally found the right man to produce their debut studio album - producer Paul Tipler (80's Matchbox B-line Disaster, Placebo, Elastica), who understood exactly what SPiT LiKE THiS were all about. When the band went in to Studio 811 in Cowfold, West Sussex, on the 12th June 2007, the entire album was expected to take around fifteen days to record and mix. However, between Tipler’s methodical approach to recording and the band’s determination to make the best album they possibly could, recording ballooned to thirty-six days, testing their patience, resolve, and finances to the limit.

The band received offers from several record labels for licensing and distribution, but they elected to wait for the right offer to come along.

On the 1st July, a picture of Vikki was featured in the Daily Star on Sunday newspaper to promote Gary Bushell’s podcast, which included an interview with SPiT LiKE THiS.

This momentous year crammed in 58 live shows (including three shows in the space of 24 hours), including appearances in Blackburn, Bolton, Milton Keynes, Leicester, Southampton, Northampton, Plymouth, and Bury. It culminated in the band’s appearance on the main stage at the inaugural Hard Rock Hell festival, at Butlin’s, Minehead, opening for Twisted Sister, in their only 2007 appearance.

Other memorable highlights of the year included gigs with Love/Hate, The Misfits, Cradle Of Filth, 69 Eyes, LA Guns, The Quireboys, Zodiac Mindwarp, My Dying Bride, Saxon, UFO, and Vixen, to name but a few.

2008

While the band continued to look for the right label to pick up their album, they took their unique brand of shock’n’roll live show to as many people as possible, playing 38 live gigs the length and breadth of the country, including support slots with Breed 77, Blaze Bayley, Hardcore Superstar, Miss Conduct, and Voodoo Six, as well as headlining gigs of their own. They also headlined at the Regener8 Festival at Canterbury, and the Alternative Stage at the Cambridge Rock Festival.

In May, the band announced the appointment of manager Gary Raymond (RTB Management) and agent Richard Smith (Nice Idea Productions Ltd) to help them get to the next level.

Finally, SPiT LiKE THiS found a home for their debut album with Transcend Media Group, and signed their contract on stage at Skin Deep magazine’s ‘Tattoo Jam’ event, at Llandudno, North Wales, on Sunday 3rd August, after headlining there the previous evening. A further deal between Transcend and Cargo Distribution gave the album release a green light.

As a precursor to the album release, the singles ‘Trick or Mistreat’ and ‘Sweet Transvestite’ (a cover version of the song from the Rocky Horror Picture Show) were released on download only, on the 20th October. Sweet Transvestite had been recorded as a b-side for a planned CD and limited edition vinyl single, but due to distribution problems the physical single was never produced.

SPiT LiKE THiS released their debut album, finally entitled, 'We Won’t Hurt You (But We Won’t Go Away') on the 17th November. The band had struggled to find a suitable title for several months, the eventual winner being taken from the newly-rewritten lyrics of ‘Young, Dumb & Full of Fun’, and chosen to reflect the band’s dogged determination to be accepted on their own terms.

At one point, pre-release orders for the album pushed it to Number 11 in the HMV.com preorders chart. It went on to sell out three times on HMV.com (including once on the day of release); three times on Amazon.co.uk, and twice on Play.com. HMV subsequently rolled the album out across 148 stores nationwide – an almost unprecedented move for a debut album from a breakthrough band. The first pressing of the album has now sold out.

December brought the band a triumphant return to Hard Rock Hell, as The Dragons Ball invited them to play at Pontins, Prestatyn Sands on Saturday 6th December. Despite a midday time-slot, the band pulled an audience of around 400, and a poll of the festival’s attendees conducted by the organisers placed SPiT LiKE THiS as the 7th best band of the weekend from 47 acts. The full Top 10 was:

1) Black Label Society
2) Thin Lizzy
3) Clutch
4) Orange Goblin
5) Wildhearts
6) Hawkwind
7) Spit Like This
8) Tygers of Pantang
9) Battlelore
10) Alestorm

The band received their first-ever review in KERRANG! Magazine following this performance: “SPiT LiKE THiS (KKKK) get things going in a welcome bluster of vampish theatrics and glitzy sing-alongs.”

2009

SPiT LiKE THiS have deals in place to release 'We Won’t Hurt You (But We Won’t Go Away' in Australia, Austria, France, Germany, Greece, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland during 2009. They are negotiating releases for Benelux, Canada, Italy, North America, Russia, and South America.

Over the weekend of the 10th & 11th January, the band shot their first full-length music video with B-movie director Johnny Crash, for the song ‘Sex, Drugs & Heavy Metal’ the lead song and second single from their album, 'We Won’t Hurt You (But We Won’t Go Away)'.

The Skullox

The most enduring trademark of SPiT LiKE THiS is the Skullox logo, first seen on the cover of the 'Dragged Kicking & Screaming' EP. Composed of a skull atop a pair of crossed B.C. Rich Warlock guitars (at the time, the band used only Warlock guitars), it has been through a number of incarnations over the years, and has been treated as a character, comparable to Iron Maiden’s ‘Eddie’ – depicted in different forms and situations on the covers of various releases.

‘Dragged Kicking & Screaming’ features the Skullox being actually tattooed onto Vikki’s bottom by Sophie Zie-Carreras, who later played keyboards for the band during the recording of ‘We Won’t Hurt You’. Sophie also appears in the crowd scene on the cover of ‘We Won’t Hurt You’.

‘Sleaze Sells’… featured the Skullox depicted as a neon sign, reflecting the lurid nature of the EP’s music.

‘Scary Tales’ featured a reversible cover, upon one side of which the Skullox formed the hanging sign outside a pub.

‘We Won’t Hurt You’ has the Skullox logo shone up onto the clouds as a visual reference to the ‘Batsignal’ from the Batman TV series & movies.

Various SPiT LiKE THiS t-shirt designs have turned the Skullox into a pirate flag (2006), added lightning bolts (2007), and splattered it with blood (2008).

The Skullox and the SPiT LiKE THiS name were officially registered as trademarks by LORD ZiON & ViKKi SPiT in 2004.

Transport

SPiT LiKE THiS has boasted two unique and readily identifiable forms of transport in the band’s seven-year history.

The first, a 1984 Daimler DS420 hearse, affectionately named ‘The Boner’. Signwritten with the band’s name and logo and many other distinctive touches, The Boner served as Zion & Vikki’s sole means of transportation from June 2003 until April 2007. During this time it suffered numerous expensive indignities, including smashed side windows and stolen hood ornaments. The Boner eventually became a victim of the band’s hectic touring schedule and the remorseless British weather: Rust damage and some abortive attempts to fix seized brakes left it off the road for too long, and there were neither time nor funds to repair the damage. The Boner was reluctantly sold in April 2008, and branched out into a new career in banger racing.
The band's customised hearse, 'The Boner.'

The second vehicle, a more practical but equally bizarre choice, continues to serves as the workhorse of SPiT LiKE THiS. The Spazmobile – an unassuming blue Ford Transit minibus, formerly belonging to a Special Needs school, was purchased in February 2007. Initially christened The Slut Bus, the name didn’t catch on and it was renamed and later even rebadged as the Spazmo. It is now mostly green, with touches of grey and brown, though the original blue colour does become visible if you brush up against it hard enough. The Spazmo has never been washed since the band bought it.

Street Teams & Fan Forum

When SPiT LiKE THiS began playing live gigs in 2003, a hardcore group of fans quickly formed and frequently travelled with the band to whatever gigs they could reach. These fans were quickly branded ‘SluTz’ (The Slut being the name of the band’s logo at the time), in this context though SluT was an acronym for ‘SPiT LiKE U TOO’, identifying the fans as clearly belonging to the band. As the band’s popularity increased, all the fans became SLuTz, and the hardcore became known as 'The SLuTz of Doom'.

From the first days of the band’s existence, word of mouth has always been a crucial tool for publicity and marketing. The band continues to encourage fans to form street teams to help publicise them, and they have provided a variety of free stickers and flyers over the years to help generate awareness, both of the band and of smellyourmum.com, and even dedicate a part of their website to fans’ exploits in this arena.

Fans who sign up to join street teams become a member of the 'Street SLuTz'. Originally established in support of smellyourmum.com, and replacing the ‘Guerilla Militia’ paid membership fan club which smellyourmum.com had previously operated, the Street SLuTz first appeared around February 2004. The name was changed briefly to Street Squadron in 2008, following concern that potential members were put off by the word ‘slut’, but an outcry from members saw it revert back again shortly afterwards.

SPiT LiKE THiS have maintained a website since January 2002, to which a fan forum was added in October 2002. Prior to this, the forum was attached to the first incarnation of smellyourmum.com. Following the movement of the ever-expanding SPiT LiKE THiS website to a fully dedicated server in November 2006, the forum was named Obscene (But Not Heard) after the song of the same name from the ‘Dragged Kicking & Screaming’ EP. This forum has over 1,400 members, while the band’s email newsletter (the NOiZLETTER) has a circulation of over 15,000.

Associated Enterprises

A.M.P.

A.M.P. (Against Manufactured Pop) is the name of a campaign promoting an online petition which Zion drafted in protest at the music industry’s predilection for shake-and-bake music acts such as Girls Aloud and Leona Lewis. The petition is still open and has accumulated 900 signatures to date.

The AMP Petition

TO: The Worldwide Music Industry

FROM: A.M.P. - Against Manufactured Pop

September 18th, 2002

We, the undersigned, are taking our music back. No longer will we be force fed manufactured production line bands and solo singers. There are hundreds of thousands of talented singers, songwriters and musicians who are not being given a chance to show the world their God given talent because you have filled the industry with Stage School wannabes who don't CARE about what they do, they only care that they are famous.

There is a place for all types of music but choice is being limited on a daily basis. We want to hear music that was created out of a passion, a yearning, a misfortune, an accident, a miracle. What we don't want is ABC pop. We've had enough of music by numbers! It is destroying creativity as those of us desperate enough to toe the line are misrepresented and those of us who do try and do something different and unique are being ignored.

This is not a petition signed solely by musicians. This petition is signed by everyone who wants freedom. The freedom of selection. The freedom of choice. The way things are going, soon, the only music that will be available, is that that has been prepackaged and preapproved by you.

And that is wrong.

bringoutyourdead.co.uk

This tongue-in-cheek website went live in 2005. Devised as an attention-getter for SPiT LiKE THiS and offering links to their website, bringoutyourdead.co.uk offers rock’n’roll-style funerals free of charge for celebrities who die within the UK. It has not received any business to date.

Megabucks Music

Picking up where Vagabond Records had left off, Megabucks Music became the exclusive label for SPiT LiKE THiS from February 2002, until the formation of Spit Like This Productions Ltd in 2008. Content recorded under Megabucks Music was usually licensed to BUT! Records, after ‘Anarchy For Two’. Megabucks Music still licenses all the SPiT LiKE THiS music, with the exception of ‘We Won’t Hurt You (But We Won’t Go Away).’ In addition, Megabucks Music also was responsible for the issue of Zion & Vikki’s early t-shirt designs, the venture that eventually became Smell Your Mum.

Smellyourmum.com.

Smell Your Mum is the name of the t-shirt company formed by Zion and Vikki in 2002 to fund SPiT LiKE THiS. Smell Your Mum is still going strong under its original management, and is run from the house that Zion and Vikki share with ViLE GiLEZ. Zion manages the website and designs the t-shirts, while Vikki does the actual printing by hand on her kitchen table – which is one cause of the Repetitive Strain Injury to her right thumb. Since its formation, smellyourmum.com has received more than 10.4 million hits, and now holds the copyright for over 400 designs. It also produces merchandise for SPiT LiKE THiS.

Spit Like This Productions Ltd.

This is the new label started in June 2008 by Zion and Vikki, and the entity which owns & licenses We Won’t Hurt You (But We Won’t Go Away). CYNDi ROTT and ViLE GiLEZ are expected to become joint owners of the label with LORD ZiON and ViKKi SPiT, in the near future.

Vagabond Records

Vagabond Records was a record label set up by Zion & Vikki to record the music of SPiT LiKE THiS, in February 2002. In the event, the name Vagabond Records never featured on a recording, as the company’s name was changed to the more familiar Megabucks Music, in June 2002, before the first EP, ‘The Pop Shot!’ was released.


Discography

We Won't Hurt You (But We Won't Go Away)
(CD Album)
Tracklisting: Sex, Drugs & Heavy Metal / Heart Thief / Trust Your Instincts / Young, Dumb & Full Of Fun / Dead Girl Walking /
Down On You / Pussywhipped / Hunt You Down / Act Of God / Coming After You / Top Of The World /
Sleaze Sells...But Who's Buying? / Trick Or Mistreat
Running Time: 46 mins 42 secs
Release Date: 17th November 2008 (UK)
Label: Transcend Records (under license from Spit Like This Productions Ltd)
Catalogue Number: TR185CD

Trick Or Mistreat / Sweet Transvestite
(Download-only single)
Tracklisting: Trick Or Mistreat / Sweet Transvestite
Release Date: 20th October 2008
Label: Transcend Records (under license from Spit Like This Productions Ltd)
Catalogue Number: TR184D

Scary Tales: The Collection
(CD Compilation)
Tracklisting: Asshole Parts I & II / Beaten Road / Hooked On You / I Need A Fix / Trust Your Instincts ('03) / (I Feel So) Vindicated /
To The Bitter End / Not Dead Yet / Epilogue / Rebel Lover / Obscene (But Not Heard) / Who Needs You? (I Don't) / Trick Or Mistreat /
Trust Your Instincts ('05) / Dragged Kicking & Screaming / Gay Man / Down On You (XXXTra Bonus Demo Track) /
Fuck You (XXXTra Bonus Demo Track) / Someday (Previously Unreleased Demo Track) /
Trick Or Mistreat (Previously Unreleased TotalRock Session) / Trust Your Instincts (Previously Unreleased TotalRock Session)
Running Time: 77 mins 06 secs
Release Date: 20th March 2006
Label: BUT! Records (under license from Megabucks Music)
Distribution: UK: Proper Music Distribution
World: Proper Music Distribution
Catalogue Number: CDBUT666

Dragged Kicking & Screaming
(CD EP)
Tracklisting: Rebel Lover / Obscene (But Not Heard) / Who Needs You?
Running Time: 11 mins 14 secs
Re-Released: 28th November 2005 (with full nationwide distribution)
Originally Released: 18th August 2004
Label: Megabucks Music / BUT! Records
Distribution: Proper Music Distribution
Catalogue Number: MEGA003

Sleaze Sells...But Who's Buying?
(CD EP + Video)
Tracklisting: Trick Or Mistreat /Trust Your Instincts / Dragged Kicking & Screaming / Gay Man
Running Time: 13 mins 42 secs
Released: 30th May 2005
Label: BUT! Records / Megabucks Music
Distribution: Proper Music Distribution
Catalogue Number: BUTCDS18

Dragged Kicking & Screaming
(CD Single - Numbered Limited Edition of 1,000 Promo Singles)
Tracklisting: Dragged Kicking & Screaming
Running Time: 3mins 24secs
Released: September 9th 2005
Label: BUT! Records / Megabucks Music

Suck It And See
(Mini-album: For Promotional Use Only)
Tracklisting: Rebel Lover / Trust Your Instincts / Obscene (But Not Heard) / Down On You/ Hooked On You / Who Needs You?
Running Time: 22 mins approx
Released: 14th October 2004
Label: Megabucks Music
Catalogue Number: MEGA005

The Pop Shot! XXXtra
(Mini-album)
Tracklisting: Asshole (Parts I & II) / Beaten Road / Hooked On You / I Need A Fix / Down On You (Demo) / Fuck You (Demo)
Running Time: 23 mins 12 secs
Released: 20th September 2004
Label: Megabucks Music
Distribution: Self via smellyourmum.com
Catalogue Number: MEGA004

Anarchy For Two
(CD EP)
Tracklisting: Trust Your Instincts / (I Feel So) Vindicated / To The Bitter End / Not Dead Yet / Epilogue
Running Time: 17 mins 47 secs
Released: 30th January 2003
Label: Megabucks Music
Distribution: Self via smellyourmum.com
Catalogue Number: MEGA002

The Pop Shot!
(CD EP)
Tracklisting: Asshole (Parts I & II) / Beaten Road / Hooked On You I Need A Fix
Running Time: 17 mins 03 secs
Released: August 2002
Label: Megabucks Music
Distribution: Self via smellyourmum.com
Catalogue Number: MEGA001 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spit+Like+This">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.