Spit is a band name shared by (at least) 5 bands. 

1) SPIT is a Hardcore-Punk band from the pits of Tel- Aviv featuring members of Mondo Gecko, Kids Insane, Sweatshop Boys and Useless ID. Youth crew-type hardcore with big, shouty choruses, a few “whoa” moments, and without an overt “edge.” They do it well, with frenetic beats, stop-on-a-dime tempo changes, and excellent production.

https://facebook.com/spitbandhc/

2) SPIT is a brand new electro-club project formed by 4 experienced young musicians. They all come from a professional background and they’re involved in different projects as producers/musicians. 

They signed a recording deal with the Italian dance label Test Pressing and their first single “Falling” remixed by Daddy’s Groove team has become a global club hit in a few months smashing the dance charts in and outside Europe, being played massively by radios, big DJs and definitely one of 2007/2008’s best dance tunes worldwide.

“Falling” has been launched first in Italy by DJ Albertino in his Dance Revolution show on Radiodeejay and then worldwide by Judge Jules on BBC Radio One in his Saturday Night Show being broadcasted for over two months. "Falling" has been licensed in many countries including UK to Ministry of Sound and has been one of the most played tunes at Miami’s WMC 2008, and is included in a huge number of compilations. Follow-up single “Dawn” is out right now! You can listen to Dawn in the black and white mp3 player on the left.

3) Spit is a now-defunct metalcore band from Stavanger, Norway back in 2001. Spit is a band that manages to mix aggression, a touch of melody, a hook, and clean and scream vocals, and they did so with great musical skill. They announced in January 2008 that they would be no longer making music together as a band. However, there is a supposably project in the works. 
Until their break up, the band consisted of Jan Eirik Forland on guitar, Andreas Grepstad on bass, Erlend Berg on guitar, Steinar Fattnes on drums, and Mark Haveland on vocals.
Official Site: http://www.spit1.com


4) Spit was a hardcore band from Flint, Michigan in the 1990s.

5) Beatdown hardcore band from Virginia, USA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.