Split Heaven is one of the most important upcoming promises Heavy Metal has to show to the world. They combine thundering speed, '80s metal riffs (we all miss), battles of solos and high pitched vocals to create a vicious monster ready to bite, infect and spread the word of Heavy Metal. These five amigos from Mexico are ready to make you scream.
 
Pedro Zelbohr (Guitar) and Tommy Roitman (Drums) formed Heavy/Power Metal band Split Heaven, in 2003. After recording a demo called "Lightstorm" in May of the same year, they decided to change the line up in order to evolve on the sound of the band.
 
After two years, now with two new members: Eli Valenzuela (Vocals) & Carlo "Taii" Hernández (Bass), Split Heaven recorded a second demo called R.I.P with two songs and with this recording (with a much better and powerful sound) they had the chance to play all over Mexican Republic and also having the opportunity to be the supporting band in a concert of Paul Di Anno.
 
In 2007, Asenath Records from Monterrey, México, offers a contract to release the first full-length album of the band. Split Heaven accepts and enters the studio recording ten songs, half in English and half in Spanish, having as a result a Power Metal album that opened doors for the band, touring in México as headliner and also being the supporting band for Hammerfall (Sweden), Rata Blanca (Argentina) & L.A Guns (U.S.A).
 
Being not 100% satisfied with the sound of the first album, Split Heaven decides to add a new member, Armand "Hank" Ramos in the guitar. In 2008, having a solid line up and sound, Split Heaven enters the rehearsal room in order to create a new album. Blower Records (Veto, Strike Master, Voltax, Gumo Maniacs, etc.) offers a contract for the second full-length album "Psycho Samurai" which was released on July of 2008 officially in a show with U.S Metal bands At War & Agent Steel.
 
In 2009, Split Heaven won the "Mexican Metal Battle" contest, which took place in Mexico City at Circo Volador venue. With this, they received the opportunity to represent México in the "2009 Metal Battle" at "Wacken Open Air" on its 20th Anniversary being the first Mexican band ever to perform in this festival.
 
In the same year, High Roller Records (Germany) acquires the license of "Psycho Samurai" album from Blower Records and the band releases their first vinyl production in February of 2010.
 
In March of 2010, the German label "Pure Steel Records" signed the Mexicans in order to release their 3rd album In December of the present year, having also planned the re-releases of the previous albums.
 
In July of 2010 Split Heaven joined the "American Old School Metal Attack" in Sao Paulo, Brazil, with the Pure Steel Records bands: Enchanter (U.S.A) and Hellish War (Brazil). Again, the band represented Mexico in this great tour, which also is planned to take place in the U.S & Europe in the next years.
 
Now, the band is finishing the 3rd album and planning a European Tour to promote the new work.
 
Split Heaven is endorsed by: Washburn Guitars, Randall Amplifiers, Vic Firth, MEINL Cymbals and Evans Drumheads.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Split+Heaven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.