Czech progressive metal band.

The band was formed in November 2002 by a drummer Jiří M. Lýsek and a guitar player Michael Ručil (both ex-Godless Truth). J. M. L. invited a bass player Tomáš Surma (ex-Cabo Wabo), a guitar player Mirek Řezníček and last but not least a singer Petr Duliškovič (both ex-Dream Theater Revival). 
M. Ř. immediately and unprecedented took the lead with his idea of "get-at-able progressive metal". 
The band has stuck to this style ever since. Although a founding member, Michael Ručil was fired soon after ignoring the initial ca. five rehearsals. Shortly after that, his place was taken by a keyboard player Martina Vichrová, who also started to compose. This lineup played its first gig in July 2003 - a public rehearsal in Uničov. After this gig, Split Bearing decided to record its first demo. 
The band chose the M. K. Records studio in Šternberk. The recording process took almost two months. 
The resulting album SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN was positively received by the press: ROCK SHOCK - 5 out of 6 (Korál), ROCK & POP 5 out of 7 (Husák), SPARK 7 out of 7 (Čermák) - DEMO OF THE MONTH, see the reviews below. After several gigs the rest of the band reached the view that further cooperation with M. Vichrová is impossible for both time and instrumental reasons. In January 2004 has place was taken by Dominika Lamačová. 
Split Bearing began touring the Czech Republic (R. C. Šuplík Přerov, Jazz Club Olomouc, R. C. Golem Zlín, etc.). In the contest "Česká rocková liga 2004" (Czech Rock League 2004), the band reached the top 10. D. Lamačová left and the band was forced to play as a quartet without the keyboards. 
During 2005 and 2006, the band worked on their second album TERRAIN ECHO, cooperating with their new member, Jarda Kaplan (keyboards). The record, produced by Klaudius Kryšpín (Pražský Výběr) and ready to be released in spring 2007, offers much more compact material than the demo SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN. Our band is describing a contract of develop for new CD with firm AbsoluTon in overrun years 2007 and 2008, in the same time is band developing two new video clips.One of them „Just For This Time" rotates successfuly on TV Óčko/Madhouse,Smršť/. 
Right after a great baptism of TERRAIN ECHO album, one of the founder members Tom Surma/bass/ left the band and he was replaced by Vašek Bezkočka/Paracleda,Happy Death/in no time. 
Year 2009 begins with the release of /annual-funeral/ album SIX YEARS OF WORKING SPLIT BEARING WITHOUT MALFUNCTION  where you can hear instead of memories of Dimebag Darrell/Pantera, Damageplan/ and fortunately still living Tomba/informally/ as well as some live tracks and not yet published demos from TERRAIN ECHO and SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN albums.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Split+Bearing">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.