1) A Swedish grindcore/crust band.

"Splitter is a band that reflects the dark side of the false and dirty society we reside in."

The whole idea behind Splitter was founded around christmas in 2003 by Thimmy, Fredrik and Oskar. It all started like a joke, a lot of talk but no action. After some time they decided to make it happen and to give it 100%. The songwriting, especially the writing of lyrics was exceeding in early springtime 2004. A bunch of songs were composed and the bassplayer Thomas became a fulltime member. Now it was time to promote Splitter. Make ourselves heard in all possible ways such as MP3s, live performances, magazines and so on. Splitter chose seven songs and entered a studio in Hässelby in late spring 2004 with Kristian Niemann from Therion as producer. The result was outstanding!

Splitter made three live performances before the last piece was put to the puzzle, a second guitarplayer, - Niklas - Later, Thomas left the band and a new member - Mattias - joined Splitter for a couple of gigs.
Even Mattias left the band with a short story behind. Finally, - Fredrik -, a ripping bassplayer from Uppsala became the fulltime bassplayer in Splitter.

2) Splitter, electronica from Germany. http://splitter.bandcamp.com/

3) Splitter, german New Wave / Minimal Wave act from 1981 ("Ich freß dir aus der Hand" 7'')
http://www.discogs.com/artist/Splitter+(3)

4) Splitter is the name of three different artists: A Belgian rapper, an indie-pop guitar band from New Zealand and an Electro DJ.

The New Zealand band Splitter are currently active, based in Auckland. They were founded by Andrew Thorne. They have 2 albums, Stereo Happiness and Devil In The Detail.

5) Splitter was a rock band from Boulder, Colorado.  They consisted of Billy Kermisch (vocals, guitar), Andrew Murphy (bass), Peter Higgins (drums) and James Murphy (guitar).  Their only known release was a full-length album called (miss).  It was released in 1998 and it was produced by Splitter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Splitter">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.