Spoil Engine. Or how to drop a bomb with style. This 5-piece metalband from Belgium/Holland started out in 2004, combining 90's metal influences such as Pantera, Machine head and Slipknot  with postmodern heaviness and soundscapes. Over the years, they evolved to a broader, catchier and even more dynamic sound in the veins of Stone Sour, Killswitch Engage and In Flames.
 
Up 'till now, the band has recorded 3 full length albums: 'Skinnerbox v.07 (2007)', 'Antimatter (2009)' and 'The Art of Imperfection (2012)'. In 2015 the EP 'Stormsleeper' was released. With 'Antimatter', Spoil Engine became the first Belgian band in 20 years to sign with Roadrunner International, which led to appearances on national radio ('De Afrekening'), national television and larger venues/festivals such as Graspop (3x), Pukkelpop and Vorst Nationaal. They also directly supported bands such as Motörhead, Volbeat, Prong, Killswitch Engage and Arch Enemy only to name a few.
 
In 2011, the band improved their line-up and got signed to Sonic Angel (a label where fans become shareholder of a band) as the first metalband on that innovative platform. In 2012, their latest concept album 'The Art of Imperfection' was recorded and released (distribution by Universal Music), displaying their most professional recording performance up to date, with top-notch musicianship. And as a first, they convinced the famous escapism artist Panamarenko to deliver a unique contribution to the album cover.

2015 saw another line-up change when the vocalist Niek decided to focus on his family. With Iris Goessens, a new (Dutch) vocalist was found. Stormsleeper had two release shows: a Belgian show in De Kreun (Kortrijk) and the Dutch release show in Maastricht.
 
Expect a live explosion of tight metal madness, low end vibes, breast shaking solos and a headbanging smile above all!

In november 2019, Renaissance Noire was released, the 2nd with Iris Goessens. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spoil+Engine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.