There are several acts named Sprawl: 

1. Sprawl (later "The Sprawlcosm") was an austrian Industrial Black Metal band

It is quite difficult to describe the sound of SPRAWL. Based on extreme music it also features elements of such different styles as jazz, industrial, oriental or ebm. The outcome of this conglomerate offers both furious and spiritual art. It is, and that's for sure, no easy-listening-music.

Early 2000 SPRAWL produced their 3-track promo-cd "V1.0", which was sent to different labels. Afterwards they began working on their first full-length-album.

"Cybionic Black Art" consists of 9 tracks, the continuous playing time is 62 minutes. After the release in austria in december 2000 it was scheduled to be released in germany in march 2001, but unfortunately the cooperation between SPRAWL and their german label did not develope as expected.

2. Japanese Indie/Math rock band.

3. Sprawl is a hardcore/Nu-Metal band from Long Island ny

In a time when it is difficult to identify music from mere "product", SPRAWL has managed to capture the hearts and imaginations of people who support local, original music. The roots of SPRAWL's sound lie in the heavy music tradition, but incorporate the more subtle influences of trip-hop beats and soulful melodic vocals. The lyrics wrestle with the idea of finding beauty and higher meaning in an amoral world of greed and manipulation.

In the past four years SPRAWL has journeyed through many different incarnations of Adelaide's music "scene", managing to play with the likes of the Testeagles, Superheist, In:Extremis, Truth Corroded and New York's Vision Of Disorder. SPRAWL has also released the CD ep Systems Rise in 1999 (now into its second run of 500) to follow up 1997s demo release Wanting to Know Reason. This year the group has included two songs on a compilation by local label Adrenalin Records (Profile: Unknown Quantity), as well as two songs on the soon to be released compilation, As the City Sleeps, featuring other local hardcore/metal/crossover bands. Songs off the CD ep and the first compilation have received national airplay on Triple J.

SPRAWL’s debut full-length release Sun in a Dark Sky was released in May 2001 to a capacity crowd, and has been selling strongly. Recorded at Soundhouse Studios and produced by Darren Thompson in late 2000, it is the bands most ambitious recording to date and demonstrates a new level of musical prowess and song-writing ability. Sun in a Dark Sky has been well received by both the public and the music press.

3. Musician, producer, lecturer, label owner, radio presenter, DJ, promoter and journalist. Andrea Benedetti is one of the more significant figures in the Italian electronic music scene. He was instrumental behind the so called techno "Sound Of Rome" and is part of the finalfrontier crew. One of his projects is Sprawl. 

4. Sprawl were a South Australian metal band that released two albums (Systems Rise 1999 - Sun In A Dark Sky 2000) before the members decided to go their separate ways and work on other projects. Most notably bassist Ian Miller spent some time performing and recording with gothic metal band Virgin Black.

Sprawl were among the initial wave of late nineties metalcore acts.

5.Behind the synonym "Sprawl" is an  music project that got started in 2006 by the DJ`s,musicians,label owner and producers Jana Clemen a.k.a. Abstract Soul,Germany and Denard Henry a.k.a. Sonic Architect  from New York City.

Sprawl stands for an eclectic sound,a blend of Techno,Electro,Rhythmic Industrial Beats, and  will  add something to the structure of the definition of "electronic music" .

6. Sprawl were a Houston, TX funk-ska band active from the mid 80s to the mid 90s.

6. Sprawl was a one-off experimental free-jazz collaborative project, released a record on Vienna-based label Trost Records in 1997.

SPRAWL is the project of drummer Michael Wertmüller (16-17, Alboth!) who had the idea of bringing together the musicians he appreciates most and has worked with in various contexts for a recording project in Thun, Switzerland. He invited Peter Brötzmann (Die Like a Dog, Last Exit) and William Parker (Cecil Taylor group), two outstanding protagonists of improvised music. He also invited guitarist Stephan Wittwer (Cowwf-Quintett, Polyphonie Zürich) and sound-artist Alex Buess (God, 16-17, ICE). 

 The main idea was to create an album which incorporates the rough energy of "Machine Gun" based on improvisation, the electricity of 16-17`s "Gyatso" and the application of experimental recording techniques which give the album its own, very special feeling. 

 The result of this collaboration of five different musicians, various styles and influences is an impressive and intense piece of music - Free Jazz, composition and improvisation, dark new electronics and electro-acoustic soundscapes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sprawl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.