Spyder-D is an American hip-hop MC hailing from Hollis Queens. Spyder-D (Duane Hughes) combined elements of jazz and funk in his live instrumental backing tracks. "Big Apple Rappin" was perhaps his most famous 12 inch single, released in 1981. Another well known single was "I Can't Wait (To Rock The Mike)", released in 1986. Spyder-D took the Eddie Murphy Saturday Night Live Buckwheat skit to wax with his track "Buckwheat Beat."  He raps on the track as both Buckwheat and as Spyder-D. In the song, he refers to Sparky D, a female emcee who he had a hand in producing.

He was also under the management of Russell Simmons during the early 80's where he recorded a track called "Rollerskating Rapper."

In 1981, he released "Spinning Webs and Rapping Rhymes" and the 12" single "Rap is Here to Stay" b/w "Big Apple Rap" (later re-released on Profile in 1985).

In 1984 he released a 12" on Profile called "Placin' The Beat" which is a very early example of the posse cut. It features Spyder-D, DJ Doc, DJ Divine and Sparky D.

As a young upstart with entrepreneurial ambitions, Spyder formed Newtroit Records with college friend Tito Lewis.

In addition, he appears on a 1987 release, "The Heart Of Hollis", a Profile 12".

In 1987 Spyder released a single called How Ya Like Me Now/The Heart Of Hollis after which Kool Moe Dee released his album of the same name. So Spyder returned with a diss called "Try To Bite Me Now" on B-Boy records in 1988.

Other Spyder tracks include "Smerphie's Dance", "My Whole Life Flashed Before My Eyes", and "B-Boys Don't Fall In Love".

In 1990 Spyder released his debut album "Gangsta Wages".

After a stint in Los Angeles on the first all rap station, KDAY, where Spyder frequently hosted for Curtis Harmon's Dance Mix show, Spyder embarked upon an engineering career at the former "Home of the Hits", Power Play Studios in NYC for much of the Nineties.

In 2000, Spyder released a new album called "True Dat" (which featured a guest spot by Doug E Fresh).

He also purchased an ABA franchise in 2005.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Spyder-D">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.