SQUARE ROOM HEROES

“Square Room Heroes” is a project conceptualized in 2011 between George Boronas and George Delkos as their take on a sound that reflects the “Universal Club Mood” as they call it! A project to host their combined as well as individual productions. After years of experience in producing and djing the guys realized that they share a similar vision and passion for dance music. Its an effort of sharing various moments fueling from many club experiences, within Greece as well as other countries. In their own words: “The concept behind SRH is to extend our horizons and to give to those who know, understand and feel the underground club culture, and get in the tunnel of electronic
underground dance music.”

Square Room Heroes are here to introduce a sound that past away, which nowadays some people don’t even know about. As trends come and go SRH create their own sound which roots well back in the early days of house, while being more recent than ever. Enjoy hula hooping to the music!

George Boronas biography:

George Boronas begun his dj career during the mid 90’s in Thessaloniki, Greece. Early influences came from his parents record collection. Bands and artists like the Doors, Pet Shop Boys, Jean Michel Jarre and many many others. According to his parents, since the age of 7 George would spend hours sitting in front of a monitor-speaker and change records so that he could get a taste of as many music styles of those days possible! Some piano and guitar lessons where enough to make him realize his love for music and made him want to be a part of all that. A few years later George started to collect vinyl which ignited his passion to use these records to create a mood in a club. Soon after, at the age of 16, he got the chance to start his dj career as he started playing his first parties. At the time George was mixing break beat, jungle and intelligent drum n’ bass Style, influenced from London’s music culture and artists like Goldie, LTJ Bukem , Suburban Base and the Moving Shadow crew. He also experimented in scratching and learning hip-hop techniques from respected artists like DJ Kid Stretch (national winner of the 1998 DMC competion in Greece), to combine various technques in his dj sets.

Soon he changed his musical taste and moved into deep house, house, tech-house and techno with influences that came from USA’s 90’s house and techno scene, as well as house from the UK. More especially Detroit, Chicago and New York. Artists like Jeff Mills, DJ Sneak, Todd Terry, Terry Francis amongst many others. Then followed the French house explosion which kept clubbers buzzing and, of course, George too! His top mixing skills and unique collection of records gained him a very good reputation in the Greek underground music circuit, and also brought him regular dj appearances in parties and events in various venues within Greece as well as other countries. A short while later George had residencies in various clubs in his hometown of Thessaloniki and was also organising nights with Pale Penguin. Together they planned parties hosting guest DJs, live musicians and local heroes who supported the events with live instruments like sax, guitars, keyboards and percussion. These events gained a cult status in their country and where coverred by very popular publications, as well as radio and TV shows.

More recently, he has compiled and mixed 2 quality tech-house CDs for Freeze Magazine (Greece) and had his first studio sessions for producing dance music. Until now he has played alongside artists like Wareika, Loco Dice, Martin Buttrich, Aril Brikha and has offered some memorable nights in Thessaloniki’s club scene. Since the last few years he also holds a long running residency in his hometown under the “Saturday Night Fever “ events. While visiting Hamburg and Berlin often to dj and develop his sound working with friends who he loves more than dearly.

George remains focused in djing and producing more music to make more audiences sweat on the dancefloor!

George Delkos biography:

Hailing from the suburbs of Thessaloniki,and constantly traveling between Berlin, London and nowdays his place of residence Sydney, George Delkos is a producer with many faces and many different styles. Throughout his teenage years George started collecting gear to form his own production studio. As a result, George is serving his unique mixture of house and techno through major techno imprints like Audio Therapy and Curfew as well as new imprints like Escada, Dezign music and Moscow records, for the last few years.
As an artist George has released under his own name George Delkos as well as under aliases like Keinton. His “Deftoner” track was a major hit in 2007 and was played by almost every high roller techno dj on the planet! His Keinton alias serves for his more tender house productions. As George says: “It’s a way of presenting my deep house side of producing.” As a Dj he has performed on major clubs and festivals all over the globe. From the infamous Cookies club in Berlin and Cargo in London to the world renowned Glade Festival.

For Bookings : Booking[at]Claap.net
For Remix Request : SquareRoomHeroes[at]gmail.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Square+Room+Heroes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.