1) Squarehead is an alias of Sebastian Komor, under which he makes original electronic music and remixes other artists. As Squarehead, he has released multiple singles and an album, "voltage controlled body music", under Celldweller's FiXT label.


2) Squarehead are a 3 piece garage pop band from Dublin, Ireland. In 2011, they released their debut album, "Yeah Nothing" on Richter Collective.

http://www.myspace.com/squareheadmusic
http://squarehead.bandcamp.com/


3) One of Sheffield’s finest young producers, Squarehead, AKA Oliver Ledger, has worked hard to rise through the ranks as swiftly as he has over the last few years. Making his name initially as a DJ Ledger has proven himself more than capable of keeping even the largest crowds moving. Working his way up through the independent promotion companies, he is now a firm Sheffield stalwart playing at different venues on all three days of the recent Tramlines festival. Supporting the likes of Eats Everything, B.Traits, Maya Jane Coles, Pearson Sound, Ben UFO, Breach and Citizen and moving from garage, to house, to disco with ease, he is a firm favourite of most Sheffield clubs.
With his first release, his ‘Move Your Body’ EP, Squarehead proved himself immediately as a promising new talent. With clear influences from the Sheffield bassline and grime scene, he transformed these familiar sounds in to something halfway between a UK Bass sound and something resembling the deep garage-tinged house music of Detroit and other pioneering US cities.
Independently releasing ‘Move Your Body’ through Bandcamp, it wasn’t long before he was noticed and snapped up by increasingly prominent labels. In just two years Ledger has had releases on Wolf Music, Sounds of Sumo, Bad Taste Records and more recently his own imprint 5ANDSEVEN. Providing both the artwork and management for the label, as well as his own tracks, Ledger is proving to be a jack-of-all-trades, whilst clearly mastering more than most people would. Founded in July 2012, 5ANDSEVEN’s first release, a free 4-track E.P from Squarehead provided an insight in to the label’s direction. Their most recent release, Squarehead’s ‘Elegante / Now Is Good’ has received support from some of the biggest names in the industry, including Dirtybird main man Justin Martin, and the inimitable Groove Armada.
As well as his own productions, Squarehead has recently been called in on remix duties for some big names, remixing Viers’ ‘Your Body,’ Ex Presidents’ ‘You Got Me’ and ‘Ride My Junk’ for one of this year’s biggest names: Waze and Odyssey.  He also has a forthcoming remix for Lulu James that promises to be a firm favourite of DJs later this year.
Recieving support from some of the biggest DJs on the radio, including another Sheffield legend; Toddla T, as well as Annie Mac, B.Traits, T.Williams and Skream, the hype over Ledger is only growing, and he’s proving himself to be an artist it would be silly to ignore.

https://www.facebook.com/Squareheaduk?fref=ts <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Squarehead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.