Formed while at university in Brighton, the five-piece -- Ollie Judge (vocals, drums), Louis Borlase (vocals, guitar), Anton Pearson (guitar), Laurie Nankivell (bass), and Arthur Leadbetter (keys) -- played their first gig after replying to an advert for a "young person's jazz night." Quickly putting a set list together, their idiosyncratic mix of half-yelped, half-sung vocals, jerky, angular guitars, brass blasts, and droney synth lines caught the ears of the U.K.'s underground scene with gigs following across the South-East with regular trips to London. The group issued a handful of tracks and singles -- 2016's "Perfect Teeth" and 2017's "LINO" -- before being picked up by Speedy Wunderground, home to the likes of black midi, TOY, and Kae Tempest. "The Dial" appeared toward the end of 2018, with the group making a name for themselves in 2019 with packed live shows including slots at the Green Man and Glastonbury festivals. Rounding out the year, Squid issued a second release for the label, the four-track EP Town Centre. In 2020, after inking a deal with Sheffield's legendary Warp Records, the group set about recording their debut album. With Dan Carey (Kae Tempest, black midi) on production duties, the group fine-tuned their mix of discordant indie rock and post-punk, resulting in their debut album. Bright Green Field was issued by Warp at the beginning of 2021.

There are other bands with the same name:

2 - Squid were a 90’s industrial/hard rock band based in Preston, Lancashire in the UK.  

The band’s first demo, “Gendercide” was released in 1996 and the following year they released a 7-track EP entitled “Prophetishism.” Squid released their first full-length album in 1999 entitled “The Bitter Saint’s Abortion.”

Though the group was never signed, they gained a considerable following in the UK, and were twice voted as “Best Unsigned Band” in Metal Hammer magazine’s annual reader’s poll in consecutive years, 1999 and 2000. 

In 2003, the band changed their name to 616 Abortions.  

Squid: 
Vocals – Jason (now Jane)
Bass & backing vocals – Lorraine 
Guitar – Dominic

3 - Squid is an underground avant garde jazz ensemble based in Sydney, Australia.

4 - Polish band from Wrocław. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Squid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.