1) Very early Japanese hardcore punk band.

2) A thrash metal band from Brazil formed around 1984, they only released one live demo before splitting-up.

3) SS was a thrash metal band from Barquisimeto, Falcon, Venezuela, formed in 1985. They were a pioneering band of the thrash metal scene in Venezuela and are still considered one of the best acts of such genre from the country. Although their name and image was clearly taken from "Nazi Germany", the band itself, their lyrics and ideals had nothing to do with National Socialism. The band consisted on three members: Brutalis Waffen (Drums), Alex Hinojosa (Bass, vocals) and Luis Rodriguez (Guitars). They only released two demos before splitting-up, Averno (1987) and Live In Punto Fijo (1988).

On 2010 the band went active again, re-working on old material and writing new songs, plus performed live for the first time in 20 years.

4) SS (SudanStrain) is a power electronics project from the owner of the Abgurd label.

5) Drum N Bass/Jungle artist : DJ SS played an important role in the early-'90s development of drum'n'bass, releasing a number of formative tracks beginning in 1990 on his co-owned Formation label before returning in the mid-'90s with a plethora of productions after a brief sabbatical. Born Leroy Small in Leicester, England, SS's involvement in the drum'n'bass scene predates its development, back in the days of hardcore. In the early '90s when hardcore began to morph into what would become known as drum'n'bass, he released a series of influential tracks on Formation, including "Breakbeat Pressure," one of the style's early classics. However, once drum'n'bass traded its hardcore roots for a more ragga-inflected sound around 1993, SS retired from production, not being interested in the ragga sound. He focused his efforts during this period on other labels that he ran. He returned to drum'n'bass a few years later, though, in a big way. Throughout the late '90s he released several records on different labels under a number of monikers (Keen, Tekniq), becoming one of the more recognized producers in the U.K. drum'n'bass scene. ~ Jason Birchmeier, All Music Guide  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.