Staccato was a symphonic power metal band from Timişoara, Romania.

(There was also Staccato, a symphonic power metal band from Argentina.  They released the album "A New Century" in 2003 and disbanded in 2004.)

The history of the band Staccato began some time before it became Alex G. Mihai’s project. The band was founded in 1988 in the city Vulcan, Romania by Cojocaru Florea – drums with the help of Dan Prişca – guitar, Florin – bass guitar and Ovidiu – guitar. A group of high school pupils around Cojocaru Florea, Dan and Ovidiu were awarded at the classical guitar section during the Cântarea României national festival. The group had an meteoric existence due to Ovidiu’s premature death (in 1988?), the other band members attending different university centers.

During 1990, Staccato was reborn, this time with a more modern sound. The line-up included Cristi Gram – guitar (now member of Phoenix), Danny Cătineanu – drums, Mişu – bass guitar, Chelu - vocals and Dan Sârbu – guitar. The band worked with this line-up until 1993, when Cristi Gram and Chelu joined the band Fatum.

Following the initiative of Alex in 2002, Staccato was founded for the third time. The band approached symphonic metal, Swedish guitarist Yngwie Malmsteen being a major influence for Alex. The first Staccato Line-up included Alex G. Mihai – vocals and guitar, Imi Varga – bass guitar, Sorin Fador – keyboards, Dibo Medre – drums and Alex Gheorghe – guitar. After a period of time Alex Gheorghe left the band. Staccato continued with only four members: Alex, Imi, Sorin and Dibo until Alex moved to Timişoara in 2005.

The line-up of the band Staccato changed with Alex’s move to Timişoara, Romania as follows: Alex G. Mihai – vocals and guitar, Paul Bologan – Drums, Gaby Koncz – Guitar, Sorin Prejban – Bass guitar, Dimitri Bodarev – Keyboards.

In March 2006, Gaby left the band and after a short period of time Sorin and Dimitri left as well. Alex and Paul were joined by Kara – vocals, Andrei Ionescu – bass guitar, Vlad Toma – keyboards whilst Gaby Koncz returned to the band.

In 2007, the band was renamed as Syn Ze Sase Tri.

Staccato defined their music as symphonic metal with extreme influences. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Staccato">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.