Stage Dolls is a Norwegian rock band based in Melhus, Norway. The band was formed by Torstein Flakne in 1983. They released their first album two years later with the title Soldier's Gun. 

A popular trio from the city of Trondheim - the capital city of Norwegian Hard Rock. Stage Dolls quickly earned themselves a strong reputation for producing an authentic, glossy American sound married to some exceptional songs. The group's original line-up featured drummer Erlend Antonsen for the debut 'Soldiers Gun' record, produced by Bjørn Nessjø¸ at Nidaros Studios in Trondheim in the Autumn of 1982. Alongside the core personnel of vocalist / guitarist Torstein Flakne, previously a member of The Kids,  the ex-Hot Lips duo of bassist Terje Storli and Erlend Antonsen,  'Soldiers Gun' also incorporated a guesting Gunnar Anders Berg with a guitar solo on the track 'Ten Tons' and keyboards courtesy of Bård Svendsen.

The first album was a self financed affair, which at first provoked little interest from the record companies. However, Polydor would be intrigued enough to ask for a potential single resulting in the track 'Soldiers Gun'. Subsequently a deal was struck. Touring across Norway in December of 1984 had the band acting as openers to TNT and having generated fan enthusiasm on the live circuit 'Soldiers Gun' soon surpassed the 20,000 sales mark.

Their first members were guitarist and vocalist Torstein Flakne, bassist Terje Storli and drummer Erlend Antonsen. In 1985 Antonsen left the band and was replaced by Steinar Krokstad. In 1993, Krokstad was replaced by Morten Skogstad. Stage dolls is known for their glam-80s rock sound and has played at every stage in Norway. In the late 80s Stage Dolls toured in the US. Their single "Love cries" went top 3 in the "Album Rock Charts" and no.46 in the Billboard Singles Charts. Now they're back touring Norway all year. Their last album is 2004's "Get a Live" which is a live album based on their 20th Anniversary Concert in their hometown Trondheim.

Other releases are:
 'Soldiers Gun' - 1983,
'Commandos' - 1986, 
'Stage Dolls' - 1988, 
'Stripped' - 1991, 
'Stories We Could Tell' - 1994,  
'Shoot The Moon' - 1995 (Solo Album - Torstein Flakne),
'Dig[/abum]' - 1997,
'Good times - The Essential Stage Dolls' - 2002, 
'Get A Life' - 2004, 
'Get A Live' - 2004 (live album) 
 'Always' -  2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stage+Dolls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.