Conceived in 2013, Stahlsarg immediately took to the road to travel through the UK and Europe sharing their blackened death metal sound. Inspired by the world wars, their lyrics boldly and non-politically storify poignant moments of military history against a theatrical backdrop and infectious noise. Air time includes Bloodstock Radio, Total Rock Radio, ICR, BRFM and Top Rock Radio amongst others. They’ve also featured in UK and European music magazines.

2014 saw such milestones as supporting pioneers of Norwegian black metal, Mayhem, on their sole UK date in London, storming Belgium with Italian black metallers Handful of Hate and joining black metal band Excruciate 666 in France. Stahlsarg were also honoured to grace the Sophie Lancaster stage at Bloodstock 2014, warming up the crowd for Satan. No strangers to the festival scene, Stahlsarg also enjoyed Beermageddon Festival in Birmingham and Belgium’s No Compromise Metal Festival alongside headliner Crystal Viper.

Early 2015 Stahlsarg proudly created Stahlsarg Beer – handcrafted in association with The Dove Brewery, Ipswich and this was followed by a headline show in Camden, London. The band played a roaring set in Germany at Wonnemond Festival in May, sharing the stage with the German black metal legends Endstille. Stahlsarg attracted the attention of Randall amplification and are now proud to be a part of their artist roster.

Stahlsarg’s debut album, “Comrades In Death”, is available internationally via the Danish label Mighty Music. Recorded with Danny B. Takoma (Criminal, Lockup) of HVR studios, Powerplay Magazine is calling it “a multi-dimensional piece of work”. The band were honoured to be invited on a short tour through the UK, once again supporting Endstille, coinciding with the album’s release this Hallowe’en. The band are set to finish 2015 with another headline show, this time in Birmingham, and perhaps a trip back to the Dove Brewery to once again brew the Stahlsarg Beer.

2016 is shaping up to be another busy year, with gigs in Belgium, UK and Germany on the cards and talk of a second album – Stahlsarg are dead set on continuing to rise from the trenches and cross the parapet where ever it may lead. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stahlsarg">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.