There are several bands with the name Stalemate.

1.) From Providence, Rhode Island:
Stalemate had been called many different things over their seven year history: "prog-pop," "power-pop," etc. "Friend rock" was a phrase that sprang up in early 2009, coined from a disparaging essay by Sufjan Stevens about a genre for microscopic bands whose only fans are the friends they guilt trip into coming to their shows. Originally, the Providence band wore this branding to focus on its most salient feature: eclecticism. Over two albums alone, the band effectively journeyed the far reaching corners of R&B, proto-punk, progressive rock, metal, jazz, classical, and folk, all while simultaneously staying true to their original modus operandi of maintaining pop structure over their lavish, yet intricately woven, full-length records. 

Formed as a quintet from Lincoln, Rhode Island[/placeformed, the band released a full length LP while still in High School titled Grand Experiment in early 2005. The project began centered on the songwriting team of keyboardist Matthew DeMello and guitarist Cory Waldron. Together, the two courted a collective of their fellow musician-peers to perform on their basement recordings--the fruition of which became their debut record. The two songwriters bonded from a love of 70s prog-rock, garage rock revival, and metal. Together, they sought to form a band that embraced the wide spectrum of their musical tastes.

Through Stalemate's existence, they were accompanied by a variety of rhythm musicians to perform live. Various ex-members of Stalemate from the northern Rhode Island music scene include Casey Belisle, now drummer of The Rice Cakes, and  Brad Krieger  current guitarist of 14 Foot 1.

After a year hiatus, the band reconvened in the summer of 2006, performing consistently featuring bassist Geoffrey Rush and drummer Kevin "K-Dawg" Pereira. As a quartet, they made frequent appearances across New England; from dorm halls at Fitchburg State College to Providence's ill-fated venue, The Living Room. This lineup of the group championed a titanic live set that, during its peak, could extend to four hours, depending on the venue. Through 2008, the group focused primarily on cultivating the material that would eventually become their second record, We Will Carry You Out To Sea.  Fueled by extensive jams and half-joke covers of the Power Rangers' theme, the group quickly gained a reputation for being one of the most formidable live acts in Rhode Island.

After recording the initial tracks of their sophomore release in June 2008, the group experienced a series of set backs in the album's production. Completion of the record would be delayed almost a year and a half pending an ever-revolving lineup of engineers and producers who couldn't commit fully to the demands of the project. In October 2009, a few months before releasing their follow up, Rush departed the group. Samuel Brunner, a music education major at Rhode Island College and a friend of Waldron's from the college men's choir, stepped in as a full time bassist. With the help of Shryne keyboardist Alex Tirrell, makeupbreakup's Michael Lamantia, Jr., and Alex Garzone (formerly of Vudu Bevy) all manning the boards, We Will Carry You Out To Sea was finished before the turn of the decade. 

Stalemate officially disbanded in 2011 after DeMello moved to New York City.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stalemate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.