There are 2 bands that share this name:
1. A thrash/death metal band from St. Petersburg, Russia
2. A krautrock/progressive band from Pori, Finland.

1. Band was formed in autumn 1999. Stalwart members had previously played in different St. Petersburg local metal bands, such as Bestial Deform, Clangor, Vengeance, Fading Pictures, Mincing Machine. In July August 2000 Stalwart recorded their debut album "Jerk", which was released on cassettes in the beginning 2001 by Russian label Fono Productions. After this release Stalwart started live activity and played as support act for such bands as Nightwish, Finntroll and Norther.
In summer 2002 Stalwart started recording their second album. Drums tracks were recodred in Astia Studio, Finland, by Anssi Kippo (Children Of Bodom, Impaled Nazarene, To/Die/For, Norther), other part of work was done in St. Petersburg. In 2003 band signed a deal with Soyuz Music, and in October 2003 "Dive To Nowhere" was released. This album had very good reivews in Russian Metal press, some magazines defined it as "one of the bests Russian metal releases in 2003". In summer 2004 MetalAgen/Soyuz re-released Stalwart's first album "Jerk" on CDs.
In the beginning of 2007 Stalwart started recording their third album "Abyss Ahead". Famous Poland studio Hertz was booked, and this record was produced by Slawek and Wojtek Wieslawski (Vader, Decapitated, Hate). Work was completed in May, with mixing and mastering also done in Hertz studio. At the present Stalwart is looking for appropriate label to release "Abyss Ahead" and next albums.

2.The krautrock band Stalwart was formed by Jyrki Laiho (ex-Circle, Ektroverde), Janne Peltomäki (ex-Circle) and Veli Nuorsaari (Kuusumun Profeetta) and originated from a group called Paine (which featured one more musician). Hammering repetitive riffs, sporadic vocals, accents of avantgarde and psychedelic captions from outer space define the Stalwart sound. 

Related acts: Lee Miller, Hotguitars. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stalwart">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.