Kyle Myricks (Born in Massillon, Ohio, United States), better known by his stage name Stalley  is an American rapper.   Myricks started his rap career after major injury setbacks in Basketball.  He shifted his focus towards music and in 2008 he teamed up with Ohio's DJ, Terry Urban to release his first mixtape titled Goin' Ape. This followed with several mixtape releases in 2009, MadStalley: The Autobiography, 2011, Lincoln Way Nights, and 2012's release, Savage Journey To The American Dream.

In 2008, Stalley made his mixtape debut, titled Goin Ape, with fellow Ohio-native rapper Terry Urban. In 2009, he followed with the release of the new mixtape, titled MadStalley: The Autobiography, and a newfound reputation as a force on stage.  Stalley attended the 2010 Iron Mic Competition in Beijing as the featured MC.

After Stalley signed a deal to Rick Ross' Maybach Music Group (MMG) label. Stalley has worked with producers Ski Beatz on the tracks, including "Address", "S.T.A.L.L.E.Y.", "Do It Big", and "Harsh Ave". Artist, named Rashad Thomas, was featured on album Lincoln Way Nights and a recording artist, named J. Rawls would be featured on the track "Babblin".

Stalley was featured on Curren$y's Universal/Def Jam album Pilot Talk on the track "Address" (released in June 2010), as well as he featured on Ski Beatz's Universal/Def Jam projects– including 24 Hour Karate School and 24 Hour Karate School, Pt. 2.  In February 2011, Stalley completed a sports-themed music project, commissioned by ESPN, for future use in television and online programming.  Stalley's Lincoln Way Nights (released in February 2011) has received 130K+ downloads and reigned at number 2 for Bandcamp hip hop releases.  Lincoln Way Nights (released in November 2011) debuted at number 18 on the iTunes hip hop charts and has sold 4K+ copies. 
 Stalley also was featured on the Maybach Music Group albums, including Vol. 1 and Vol. 2, along with Rick Ross's mixtape Rich Forever. He also appeared on Ross' fifth studio album God Forgives, I Don't.

His most recent mixtape Savage Journey To The American Dream (released in March 2012), which reached 100K downloads in the first week, and was featured as the Stereogum Mixtape of the Week and the Spin Rap Release of the Week (7 out of 10).  It was graded an XL by XXL, and HipHopDX awarded it 3.5 out of 5.  The mixtape almost entirely produced by Huntsville, AL underground veterans Block Beattaz. Stalley's debut retail single "Swangin" featuring Scarface, from his Honest Cowboy, released on March 26, 2013 reuses a beat from G-Side's namesake track "Swangin" off their 2008 album "Starshipz & Rocketz", also produced by Block Beattaz. The music video was released on July 9, 2013 and featured a cameo from Paul Wall.  On August 8, 2013, following of his mixtape's release, it was met with generally positive reviews from critics such as PopMatters.  After it was revealed, it received a nomination at the 2013's BET Hip Hop Awards for the "Best Mixtape Category".  After receiving a great response from his label, he released Honest Cowboy: EP to iTunes on September 17, 2013, which is on the same day as the release of the label's third compilation album Self Made Vol. 3.

On August 22, 2014, Stalley announced his debut album, Ohio, and four days later, he announced October 27 as the release date.

On August 21, 2015, almost one year since announcing his debut album, Stalley released a seven track mixtape, titled The Laughing Introvert.  On January 25, 2016, Stalley released his 7th mixtape titled Saving Yusuf.

In 2017, Stalley released his second and third albums through Real Talk Entertainment, New Wave[/ablum] and Another Level. In an August 4 interview with Respect. magazine, he confirmed he was now independent. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stalley">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.