There are three bands with this name.

Starblind (1) was a greek indiepop band formed in 1997 by Kissamatic Lovebubbles ’ George Otemperis (guitar), Nick (drums), Yannis (bass), Marylle (vocals), Katerina (keyboards/piano) and Lambros (vocals/keyboards). Crush On You was included in Picnic Basket and Try A Little Sunshine

Starblind (2) formed in 2006, the original lineup being Jamie Pow (Vocals, Guitar), Chris Walton (Bass, Vocals) and Chris 'Hesi' Heselwood (Drums). Influenced by Muse, Rage Against the Machine, Radiohead, Trivium, Sigur Ros, Iron Maiden, Ennio Morricone, John Murphy and all manner of music inbetween, the sound Starblind created traveled between balls out heavy to intricate and ambient.
 
Starblind (3) formed in 2005 and is Techno, Electronica style music inspired by such bands as "Erasure" and "Depeche Mode". The name "Starblind" came from an Erasure song titled "Waiting for Sex". Vocals are mostly a mix of manipulated tracks from Kate lesing. Currently, this is the only of the 3 Starblinds that is registered with a US Trademark and has their music in most online music stores.

More about Starblind (2):

Known for energetic live shows and talented musicmanship, the trio created a slight buzz in the local area. This lineup lasted until a split in 2007 due to differences. In January 2008 Starblind reformed as the original three, but soon changed lineup as Hesi moved to Hull for university, and Jack Logan joined, bringing a much more technical style to the drums.

During 2008 Starblind honed their skills on writing original material, playing a string of gigs that climaxed with a TV appearance in December of that year, where all six originals were previewed for the first time to a live audience. From December to February '09 the first EP was recorded (between Room3Recording in Sunderland and Leeds Metropolitan university studios) and released, with only 10 physical copies of the original mix - the online release reached a wider audience. The original EP was self produced, and is being remixed for a second release with more knowledge about production gained from the music courses that all members study.

Starblind evolved to a four piece as an old school friend of Jamie and Chris, James Armstrong, joined as synth / keyboard player. 2009 saw many more gigs for Starblind and in venues that increased with size and audience attendance - O2 Academy Starblind performed to a packed room.

Throughout 2010 many changes went on with Starblind, and Jack was replaced with Steven Rouse, a heavier handed drummer with a more progressive rock edge. Plans for a second EP were scrapped as the band moved on to write a full length album. Gigs are being lined up for a bigger 2011, as well as promotional materials released and media attention gained. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Starblind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.