At the moment:

We will go  to the studio in April to record first single from the forthcoming debyt album. Single will contain two songs. And we will make a music video which will be published at the same time with the single. 

Star Insight:

Pekka: Vocals
Jesse: Guitars
Taavi: Bass
Mikael: Synth, Guitars and Programming
Teemu: Drums

History:

Star Insight is a Finnish symphonic metal band. Founded 2005 at Seinäjoki/Finland, when Mikael Nurmi started to make his own music. He recorded some guitar riffs to his homecomputer and added some drums and keyboards. He played these small pieces of music to his friend Teemu Rantanen. Teemu liked about idea to make this kind of music and wanted to help with this project.


At the year 2006 Star Insight demo-cd was only missing vocals. Aku Rahkonen from band called Caldwell got excited about this project and wanted to sing vocals. Band though they needed strong female voice to the demo-cd and luckily they found Heidi Lehtinen. She sang in three songs.

Mixing was the longest part of making this demo-cd. Mixing was made by Aku, Teemu and Mikael.

The most important musical influense to Star Insight is The Kovenant. Band itself thinks their music is space/blackmetal. Music is mood, fast and heavy. There is also some indrustial effects, some electric sounds.

All lyrics are made by Mikael, Aku and "Lizki". Lyrics are not anykind of statement.

Cover art is made by "Jänis". His art makes Star Insight music alive. More of his art: http://www.netikka.net/janis

At the year 2007 Harri Koskela joined the band to play synth. His main project is a band called Dotma.

Teemu Rantanen left the band at winter 2008. He was too busy with his other projects.

Star Insight's second demo "Adamant Factor" came out at spring 2009.

At the year 2009 (after long search.....) the band finally found drummer. He is Jukka Vainio and plays also in the band Whitemour.

Harri left the band because he was too busy at the moment. Mikael replaced Harri.

At the year 2010:

Erno Hanhisalo played while guitars but he left the band for some reason....

Two new members joined the band. Jesse Etelämäki plays guitars and Taavi Valkama plays bazz

Aku was too busy to record vocals so our friend Pekka Rajala sang vocals to the Calla ep.

2011

Arto joined the band and he plays drums

2012

Arto was replaced by Teemu Sohlström <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Star+Insight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.