There are multiple artists with this name

1) STARSEED, atmospheric death metal band from Herten, Germany
2) STARSEED, hard rock band from London, UK
3) STARSEED, artist and DJ name of psytrance producer Jeremy Barnes



1)  STARSEED, an atmospheric death metal band from Herten, Germany was formed in 1995.
In 1997 Starseed released their self produced debut EP Cosmic Conspiracy.

Members: 
Jan E. (vocals) (Yethlyreom, Sabiendas)
Olaf W. (guitar) (Musty Guts)
Andreas G. (guitar) (Musty Guts, Yethlyreom)
Michael F. (bass)
Henning L. (drums) (Castigate, Rectificated, Night in Gales, Ninnghizhidda, Yethlyreom, Despise & Conquer)
Sascha R. (keyboards) (Eternal Dirge, Ninnghizhidda, Stormgarde, Despise & Conquer)

STARSEED Official Website
STARSEED Official Bandcamp
STARSEED Official Facebook




2)  STARSEED
UK Based Hard Rock Band confirmed for Download 2011!

“A stunning collection of 12 humungous rock tracks” – KERRANG! Magazine

STARSEED:

Russell Spence – Vocals, Guitars
Gerald Gill – Guitar. Vocals
Peter Wicker – Guitar
Murray McChlery - Bass, Vocals
Andrew Spence – Drums, Vocals

STARSEED BIOGRAPHY 2011

Starseed produce some of the most satisfying melodic hard rock you're likely to hear. Soaring melodies and epic energy, powerful, riff driven rock with electrifying stage shows, their music grasps many elements of the post grunge scene drawing influences from early Pearl Jam and Alice In Chains to the power and torment of Soil. More recent comparisons include the tenacity and energy of Stone Sour and intense melody of Alter Bridge.

With significant achievements in 2007 and 2008, including performing at Download Festival 07, supporting 80’s Matchbox B-Line Disaster, and being nominated for Best Live Band at the Indy Music Awards 2008 all off the back of their EP Release “Love’s War”. 2009 was to be the biggest turning point for the band with the recording and release of their highly acclaimed album “Peace Machine”. Praised by Kerrang! Magazine as “12 humongous rock tracks”, “Peace Machine” was produced by Jason Wilcock of Stakeout Studios (Reuben, Fightstar, The Ghost Of A Thousand). The album launch party was held at a packed IndigO2 at The O2 which led to a full page feature in Kerrang! Magazine in August 2009, extensive national radio play including a BBC introducing interview and TotalRock Radio take-over feature, and a headline UK tour. Starseed’s music video for single “Shine” - directed by Ben Thornley of Sitcom Soldiers (Therapy?, Fightstar) – was accepted for rotation on Scuzz TV. “Shine” was featured on Ian Camfield’s Rock Show (XFM), Bruce Dickinson’s Rock Show (BBC Radio 6) and Alex Bakers New Music Show (Kerrang Radio) to critical acclaim.

2010 continued to bring success for the band with a live studio session on XFM, and Rock Radio Scotland. Single “Shine” was featured on BBC Radio 6, XFM, Planet Rock, Music Choice and A-Listed on Totalrock Radio as well as featured on numerous national FM and University Radio stations. The band completed another UK tour supporting Senser, played the Jagermeister Stage at Download Festival (w/ AC/DC, Rage Against The Machine, Aerosmith), Kick Out The Jams Festival 2010, Hard Rock Hell IV (w/ Skid Row, Uriah Heep, UFO) and Maesteg Metal Fest in Wales.

Now proud endorsees of Blackstar Amps, Tama Drums, Roland, Sabian, Rotosound Strings, Protection Racket and TC Electronic, Starseed’s year ahead includes more UK tour dates, Kick Out The Jams Festival 2011 alongside Ill Nino and Breed 77, and plans for a US release and tour.

For more details about Starseed please see their websites:

Contact:

starseed@planetstarseed.com

Bookings:
alli.hodge@feedmemusic.co.uk

Starseed - Official Website
Starseed - Official Myspace
Starseed - Official Facebook Fan Page
Starseed - Official Twitter
Starseed - Official Merchandise Store


3) STARSEED
Artist and DJ name of psytrance producer Jeremy Barnes, also known as fragrant vagrant. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Starseed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.