Raw, unwavering intensity

Formed in 2003, Canadian metal act Starring Janet Leigh began with creating music the band found both interesting and challenging with no compromise to musical integrity. Fusing death metal, hardcore, and modern jazz to create a sound that can best be described as progressively technical death metal, Starring Janet Leigh’s aural onslaught is a fine blend of artistry, fury, passion and precision. Combine the band’s musical fervor and dexterity with their unforgettable live show and what you end up with is no need for gimmicks or clichés.

Having played playing over 140 shows, playing extensively across Canada for the last 5 years, and playing dates with the likes of Candiria, The End, Cryptopsy, Circle Takes the Square, Cancer Bats, Beneath the Massacre, Despised Icon, and more, Starring Janet Leigh is definitely hard at work making its mark on the metal and hardcore community. From the moment Starring Janet Leigh get on stage, they leave an impression on you that not even time will minimize.

Starring Janet Leigh is now poised to unleash their debut full length album Spectrum on the world, which lands in stores and online everywhere May 12th, 2009. The band recorded Spectrum in June and September 2007 with Producer/Engineer Greg Dawson of BWC Studios who has previously worked with Mare (Hydrahead), The End (Relapse), Moneen (Vagrant) and many others. Mastering of Spectrum was handled by Alan Douches at West West Side who has worked with Converge, The End, The Dillinger Escape Plan, Mastodon, Unearth, and Nile just to name a few. Current fans and new comers to Starring Janet Leigh should expect to hear the band head in a much more death metal direction on Spectrum while still retaining their progressive and experimental roots.

Expect to see Starring Janet Leigh across Canada, the USA and Europe in the near future.

http://www.myspace.com/starringjanetleigh <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Starring+Janet+Leigh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.