Star One is a Netherlands based progressive metal supergroup / side-project of Arjen Anthony Lucassen of Ayreon fame. Also releasing music as Arjen Anthony Lucassen's Star One.

Unlike Ayreon, the band did not follow one storyline; instead, each song was a different story with a sci-fi concept, most of the tracks based on existing movies and series. The band takes its name from the second season finale of Blake's 7.

Star One was born out of the remnants of an abandoned collaboration between Lucassen and Iron Maiden frontman Bruce Dickinson in 2002. Dickinson proposed the idea and the two exchanged ideas and put together four songs, Lucassen writing the music and Dickinson writing the lyrics. The project was abandoned however after Lucassen mentioned the project on the internet and Dickinson's manager called off negotiations. Instead of completely abandoning the material that had already been produced, Lucassen decided to put his own lyrics to the music and created Star One.

When asked on the "Ask Arjen Anything" channel of communication if there would be another Star One album, Lucassen simply stated "Probably". However, he has since stated that he does not want to make another Star One album: "Space Metal was really magic. I am afraid that I will fail to capture the same atmosphere and actually ruin it! I am actually against sequels; you cannot repeat the same atmosphere and feeling like you had with the first album."

In an interview conducted by Ragnarok Radio in October 2009 Arjen stated Star One is "definitely not dead."

In October 2009 in another interview, with Lebmetal.com, Arjen said he was working on what might become another Star One album: "In the meantime I will be working on a new, heavier album. Possible a new Star One album, but then again things never work out the way I plan them", and in a November 2009 interview with Lagrossradio.com, Arjen stated that he was definitely working on a new Star One album and that he had already written and recorded a song.

In March 2010, a "demo listening party" was held where several members of the arjenlucassen.com message board were allowed to listen to the first (only instrumental) demos for the new Star One album. In August of the same year, Arjen revealed the title of this second album, Victims of the Modern Age, and announced that it was ready. The album was released in October 2010.

Beginning 9 February 2021 on his Facebook page, Lucassen began teasing a new Star One album, On 6 October 2021 he revealed that it would be titled 'Revel in Time'. The album is due to release in 2022 under Arjen Anthony Lucassen's Star One. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Star+One">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.