GET READY TO MOSH!

It’s June 2009 and after the crashing of their band Crashed, Mike v. Bekkum (Spartan), Casper Leijen and Tomek Whitfield decide to start a new Metal formation. Their goal: MOSHING!
In search for a new guitarist they stumbled upon Tristan Jacobs, who decided to take the job.
After a successful jam where the first songs were written, they decided that there’s still something missing.. and thus guitarist Pim Nijssen was recruited to fill the gap. And he did so successfully, because with this addition the band could focus on writing more technical, harmonic music.

After a year of writing and rehearsal, they decided it was time to take it to the stage. 
Plans were made to do their debutgig with fellow metalheads ‘Die For The Purpose Of Living’ and ‘From The Ashes’. Sadly, this is where things started to go bad as Tomek decided to quit the band to pursue his carreer. And so the gig had to be cancelled. 
The downtime didn’t take very long however, because within only 10 minutes a replacement drummer was found: Sang-Jae Kouwenberg (Atgeir, Sequenced Chaos). A tight and technical drummer with good experience in the scene and above all a great guy.

And so it began…
With renewed spirit and motivation, the band has begun to rewrite old songs, write new ones, work on their musician skills and performance to deliver a kickass live show to all the metalheads out there!
Keep an eye out for these guys.

THE NOISE: 

The band’s main influences are Trivium, Lamb Of God and Sonic Syndicate.
This is something that you can definitely hear in their music: Fast and tight thrashy drums combined with a tight fingerbass provide a rocksolid basis on which the heavy melodic guitars can find their way. Terrorising vocals to complete the picture, and there you have it: A timebomb sealed in a melodic wrap with a series of catchy breaks as a bonus. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/State+Of+Negation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.