SteelRage is one of the most recognized bands within Chilean Heavy Metal scene. Founded with the name of “Disorder” by Patricio Solar, Melvin Poblete, Julio Diaz and FranciscoVera in 1998. In his early days, the band cultivated a strong Power Thrash but this style changed towards a more melodic vein. For that reason, they recruited Oliver Monterrosa,vocals and Alejandro Bustamante, keyboards.

This formation records its first album in 1999, an EP of 6 tracks called “I Swear Revenge”, in the prestigious sound engineer Francisco Straub studio, who has worked with another famous chilean bands like “Los Prisoneros”, “Inquisición”, etc. Between the years 2000 and 2002, the band experimented a lot of formation changes, setting up Oliver like leader vocalist and Julio like the second vocals, but they were replaced by Jaime Contreras and Christian Willembrinck later. With this new alignment, the band gave life to what will be his first long duration, “Engraved In Steel” which one came to light in October 2003, besides that the band gave a lot of concerts in Santiago and other cities, with a very good reception from people. 

The CD and the band went abroad, arriving to countries like Germany, Poland, Japan, Argentina and Colombia among others, and in all these places they received excellent reviews. The first video recorded by the band was “Red Line” in 2004, in that moment Francisco and Christian abandomed the band and Jose Takings Montecinos and Franz Strauss took their positions respectively.

With this formation, SteelRage opened the show for the Spaniards “Mago de Oz” in front of seven thousand people in “Victor Jara Stadium”, with an excellent reception from people. The show was recorded and became the second video of the band, called “We'll Never Give Up”. Next years SteelRage continue given concerts in Santiago and others cities like Talca, Linares, Rancagua, Valparaiso, Antofagasta. In Santiago, they gave shows in some famous night clubs like Batuta and House of Rock, besides one concert gave in Gabriela Mistral Theater with others great chilean bands .

By the end of 2005 Pascal Coulón jointed the band ..boards replacing Alejandro Bustamante and SteelRage begun the process of composition of its second work, which is completely finished at the beginning of 2007, where the recording process begins.

As in their previous album , the percusion was recorded in Sade studio, in charge of Juan Pablo Donoso, but the rest of the instruments were recorded in the studio of his keyboard player, Pascal Coulon. this time the band got a special particular sound, which was born due to the time they spent there. In the first months of 2007, it appears the first single of the band, “Double Life”, which in addition gave the name to the album.

In May of 2007, the band appears in Caupolicán Theater in front of almost four thousand people, opening the show for the American band “Symphony X”. In 2008 the band is led to produce its second disc. “Double Life”, which was published and put on sale by independent way till July 10 2008. The launching concert was onJuly 11, on SCD Theather in Mall Plaza Vespucio, Santiago de Chile, in front of an important number of fans.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Steelrage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.