There are two bands named Steeler.

1. A German metal band that was active from 1981-1988 and released four albums in that time. This was the band that the German guitarist, Axel Rudi Pell made his debut in.*
2. An American metal band that was active from 1981-1984 and released one self titled album. Compilations of rare, unreleased material from the band would later be released officially to celebrate their legacy.**

*1. German: Steeler was founded in 1981 in Bochum. The band was originally formed with members Peter Burtz on vocals, Axel Rudi Pell on guitar, Tom Eder also on guitar, Volker Krawczak on bass and Jan Yildiral on drums. The band released two albums with this lineup, one a self titled album (Steeler) and the other titled 'Rulin' the Earth'. After the first two albums Krawczak was replaced by Roland Hag, this new lineup released two more albums. The first was named 'Strike Back' and the other 'Undercover Animal'. After this the band split up.
   Discography:
Steeler (1984)
Rulin' the earth (1985)
Strike Back (1986)
Undecover Animal (1988)

**2. American: Steeler was an early 1980 heavy metal band. They started with members Ron Keel on vocals and guitar, Michael Dunigan on lead guitar, Tim Morrison on bass and Bobby Eva on drums. They released a 45rpm vinyl single (Cold Day in Hell)
  After a while Bobby Eva left the band and was replaced by Mark Edwards.
  After that Michael Dunigan and Tim Morrison left the band and were replaced by Rik Fox (bass) and an 18 year old guitarist Yngwie Malmsteen. This line-up released the Steeler's first album (Steeler).
  The final line-up:
Ron Keel - vocals and guitar
Kurt Jaymes - lead guitar
Greg Chaisson - bass 
Bobby Marks - drums
  This line-up didn't release albums or singles.
  After a long time Keel produced a compilation album with songs from the single, live show bootlegs, album and unreleased tracks. This album was released in 2005 (Metal Generation: The Steeler Anthology) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Steeler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.