Started in 2008, Steel Savior has seen it's fair share of line up changes, and even a band name change. The band started out as Halt The Fall, with Sten Martinez on guitars, and David Higgins on vocals and guitars as well. David left to pursue other things, and joined another band, while Sten continued on with the band. As members left, others were added. 
A craigslist ad drew the attention of Zach Loveless to play guitar for the band, now called Steel Savior. Bryan Sbragia was also one of the people attracted to the band via craigslist. Now with Sten, Zach, Bryan, and the original bass player Chad Beukema, the band needed a talented singer. A meeting between Sten and David, brought David back to Steel Savior. The lineup was set, now there needed to be songs.  
With a full lineup, a full set's worth of material was written, and the band set out ot gain new fans by playing shows all over Sacramento CA. The band opened for several national acts, as well as played all over Sacramento. 
Before long, the band noticed that Chad did not seem as committed to the band as everyone else was, and a replacement bass player was sought. Nick Montana was quick to answer the call, and learned the band's material quickly. Before long, the band was back out and playing shows with minimal downtime, headlining several shows around their hometown of Sacramento CA. 
The band wrote 10 songs, and recorded them over the course of several months, and then released them in August of 2011 on their first CD Apokalypse. The CD is still available for sale on their facebook page. The list of influences on this CD is seemingly endless, but Iron Maiden, Iced Earth, Nevermore, Queensryche, Dream Theater, In Flames, as well as Metallica are usually common. 
Steel Savior took a short break from shows for a couple months to create a game plan. Nick left the band in Janruary of 2012 citing a lack of shows. The band has yet to find a new bassist, but is currently writing new material for a future release. Check the band's facebook page out to keep up to date with everything. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Steel+Savior">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.