There are two known bands with this name:

1) Dutch Metal band from Arnhem during the 90's.

2) A heavy metal band from Bangladesh

About the band from Arnhem is known that they made three demo's and one full-length.

The story below is about the other Stentorian

Dhaka January 7 2001… Stentorian forms; just the name implies the image of performing loud music on and off stage. The perfect group for heavy metal--the next phase of heavy rock music. Critics and fans alike have tried to classify this 6-piece group from the pounding music industry of Dhaka, with terms like "pure metal", "classic thrash metal for the new age" or "modern day power metal". Whatever anybody wants to call them, they must add catchy and energetic, as they inspire people to continue to press replay when the mixed CD containing the band's song is in their stereo and let's-go-see-them-again, when they play live.

Stentorian’s history can be divided into two eras. “Torsha era” and “Tanim era”. Torsha era was the beginning and a kickstart of Stentorian’s journey. First line-up also was included of James (guitar), Shams (bass), Golam (guitar), Bobby (drum) & Nawshad (Manager). It was on 27th October in the Indian High Commission Auditorium. From the very first show, Stentorian had a kick start--as the hall room became darker with fancy lighting, the first guitar strum with heavy distortions and that screaming voice of Torsha with his hand gestures and the huge applaud from the crowd, it was unbelievable and magical. After a while Golam left the band for higher studies. But the band was still doing shows & also writing songs. While Stentorian got its first big break to participate in Aguntuk -2 (which was a dream come true for almost any band) we had to sacrifice Torsha because that’s when he left Bangladesh for higher studies. But we somehow managed to record the vocal track for Adrissho Juddho & Bhoy at Sound garden. In the mean time while Stentorian was down to three members only, from when the Tanim era started.

In 2004, when Stentorian’s fate was at stake and members were thinking about breaking up and forming own projects, Torsha who was still with the band suggested his childhood friend’s name who was none other than Tanim. After Torsha’s repeated request Tanim joined Stentorian in September 2004. In his first concert with Stentorian, he practically smashed all the bands away and put a full-stop to the “just-standing-up-with-a-microphone age” with his energetic, unique, extra-ordinary, aggressive and powerful performance. Thus, Stentorian’s golden age started. Tutul (guitar) and Rafiul (drums) also joined stentorian at the same time. With Tanim’s powerful performance and unique ability of delivering in both baritone and tenor range, James and Tutul’s powerful guitar playing along with Rafiul’s drums and Shams’ bass playing; it was not a surprise that Stentorian had performed more than 100 concerts at 2005 and was quoted as “The most popular band of underground” in so many places including internet forums, newspaper, magazines etc. With the release of “Bishonno Adhaar” in Agontuk-3 in which the band featured Bassbaba, Stentorian’s popularity took another leap and went on a whole different level. 2005 October, Stentorian released its debut album “Protimuhurte” which was a huge success nationwide. In 2006, Tanim left Stentorian due to some personal problems and other conflicts. Mashfiat was taken as a substitute, but unfortunately he failed to fulfill Torsha and Tanim’s gap. Tanim rejoined Stentorian in January 2008 and once again started with a stunning performance at Russian Cultural Center at 11th January, 2008. A young blood Anabeel joined as Shams’ replacement.

With this lineup Stentorian released a single called “Choritrohin” in December, 2008.

Current Line Up

Tanim - Vocals
James - Guitars
Tutul - Guitars
Anabeel - Bass
Rafiul - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stentorian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.