Marie-Henri Beyle (January 23, 1783 – March 23, 1842), better known by his penname Stendhal, was a 19th-century French writer. Known for his acute analysis of his characters' psychology, he is considered one of the earliest and foremost practitioners of realism in his two novels Le Rouge et le Noir (The Red and the Black, 1830) and La Chartreuse de Parme (The Charterhouse of Parma, 1839).


There are two bands with the name of the great writer:

1)Stendhal: a Post-Rock band since 2000 from Philadelphia
2)Stendhal: a Pop-Rock band since 2004 from Cerdanyola del Vallès & Ripollet (Barcelona) 

1)They began from two ideas: modern music had grown stale, tasteless and unimaginative and live performances had become nothing more than glorified rehearsal. "Most music these days has a lot of fear in it. they- the artists- hide behind musical conventions," says Darren Morze, drummer for the band. "Stendhal is trying to transcend all of that and still make a listenable and enjoyable product. In short, our music fears nothing and no one."

Unapologetically blending hallmark rock and roll sensibility with sounds from far outside of the mainstream's tastes, has allowed Stendhal to bridge the gap between "art for art's sake" and enthusiastic audience acceptance. Empty propane tanks, gas cans, an oil drum, and sheet metal replace the traditional drum kit, while guitar, bass and even saxophone, are routinely desecrated by a dizzying array of effects pedals. Call it "art rock" or "experimental rock", these creative sounds are woven into a unique music driven by passion and intensity, to support haunting and intelligent lyrics.

The influences on Stendhal are many, but commonalities amongst the band members abound; Einsturzende Neubauten, Bauhaus, Joy Division, Big Black, My Bloody Valentine and U2. The band is as likely to draw inspiration from the fringes of the underground as they are from popular music. The marriage is a successful one, judging from the wide and varied audience Stendhal enjoys.

Debuting in March of 2000, early efforts were focused on establishing the band in the Philadelphia dark music scene. Word rapidly spread between promoters and fans across genres, and Stendhal began to build a coalition audience. Since then, the band has played everything from basement punk shows to theatrical productions, shared the stage with bands as varied as Foetus, Phantom Planet, Tapping the Vein and noise-artist Philip Smartze, and earned new fans at every show. Young Punks to old Rock and Rollers, Intelligentsia to Indie Rockers, can all be found in a Stendhal audience.

A Stendhal live show is a powerful display of raw emotion. The members of the band do not hide, and perhaps, are incapable of hiding, their emotions from the audience. It is visible to the naked eye and crystal clear to the ear, that passion drives this band. From the imposing stage presence of singer Jeff Bera to the high-energy stage acrobatics of bassist Kevin Miller, everything about the band conveys unyielding intensity in every song.

Not content with merely playing their songs, the band seeks to make every show an experience. "If all you do is play what's on the album, then people might as well not even bother coming to the show", observes guitarist John Yorio. "Improvisation gives us an opportunity to make something new happen in that moment - to get away from the safe and predictable and to take real chances." These improvised vignettes are as likely to give voice to atmospheric daydreams as they are to violent nightmares and they keep the audience listening. In response to such positive reaction, Stendhal has performed several well-received free-improvisation only sets.


2)The catalan band has two recordings: "Stendhal Syndrome" is their first demo with the first 5 songs compossed by the band and "Perennial Woodwork" recorded on summer in 2007, another 5 songs in acoustic way.

Their musical influences are from Texas is the Reason, Black Crowes, Sunny Day Real State, Wilco, Jawbox, Cave-in, Pink Floyd, to The Hellacopters, Gigolo Aunts, Oasis, Pearl Jam, Redd Kross, Led Zeppelin, Foo Fighters, Radiohead, Aina, Counting Crowes or Favez.

They often perform live concerts is spanish cities.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stendhal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.