Stephan Bodzin (born August 4,1969 in Bremen) is a german DJ, techno-producer and owner of a Label. 
Stephan Bodzin soon started getting into music, mostly influenced by his father, an artist and musician himself, whose studio contained all the magic sound-machines like ARP2600, Memorymoog, Polysix and many others. No wonder Stephan was heavily fascinated by the idea of electronic music as a little kid and soon founded his own projects as a piano and bass-player. After finding out that none of his band-mates (including himself) were able to play as tight as the legendary Korg M1 sequencer, Stephan more and more came to the point where he preferred to substitute all real musicians with virtual musicians in his studio. At the tender age of 17 he bought his first Atari computer and the story began.

After moving to the big city of Bremen, where Stephan steadily continued improving & building up his studio set-up, he got in touch with the experimental theatre scene and began to find his own platform to express his artistic and musical visions in compositions for several plays (including works for the established Goethe Theatre in Bremen and the infamous Ikarus Dancing-Theatre from Austria).

But Bodzin never lost his love for pure analogue & electronic music. He put together his first club tracks, which directly got road-tested by his brother Oliver, who was a house DJ back then. Around that time he got to know Humate member Oliver Huntemann and a long term friendship and work relationship took off.

In the following 10 years, he produced various projects like Kaycee, Taiko, H-Man or Oliver Huntemann and did countless remixes for artists like Binary Finary, Frankie Goes To Hollywood or Sinead OConnor. Furthermore Stephan created the two internationally successful solo projects Condor and Boca.

In December 2004, his friend and global techno player Thomas Schumacher asked him to produce Elektrochemie, Schumachers project with his girlfriend Caitlin Devlin, and his own Schumacher tracks. The outcome of those collabos, released on the labels Get Phyical and Spiel-Zeug Schallplatten, struck the worldwide club-scene like a bomb, nonetheless because of Stephans special skills, which can also be heard in the two albums of both projects, which will be released in 2006.

In 2005 Mr. Bodzin, started concentrating on his own career. The Solo-Single Caligula / Marathon Man, which came out on Systematic in December 2005 was his first step into the spotlight and created global interest in the artist Stephan Bodzin. Another big thing was his production work with Mr. Systematic Marc Romboy, which resulted in their Luna EP on Systematic and the tracks House Ya and Jigsaw, for Romboys debut LP Gemini.

The List of labels, which released Bodzin productions in 2005 & 2006 reads like the who is who in the innovative club music scene: Get Physical, Datapunk, International Deejay Gigolo, Systematic, Giant Wheel, Spiel-Zeug Schallplatten, Confused, Dance Electric and Great Stuff. At the moment Mr. Bodzin is busy founding his own label-platform with the helping hand of label-god Jan Langer and hes preparing a second career as a DJ and Live Act!

There is no stopping and the journey has just begun!.. and keep on watching the small printed credits on the records, it could be Stephan Bodzin!

http://www.stephanbodzin.de <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stephan+Bodzin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.