Step in FLuid is a France Instrumental Jazz-metal band featuring members

Members :
Harun Demiraslan - TREPALIUM
Florent Marcadet - KLONE
Aldrick Guadagnino - SINSCALE
Stéphane Dupé - VARIUS FUNKUS

Past members
Lucas Rousselot - PITCHOUTCHOULEX

Imagine saturated sounds with a special groove, imbued with melodies from Jazz and African music. “STEP IN FLUID” proposes a certain vision of rock music, through a sound with a personal approach to the composing. 

This music is the result of a deep cultural mix. Originally, the project took shape following the idea of refusing to belong to any given kind of music. Impassioned by musical experimentation, the guitarist and composer Harun Demiraslan TREPALIUM started to work in this direction by observing certain techniques of playing, especially developed by the metal-band Meshuggah. Inspired by this band, he combined some elements with jazz-rock, funk, hip-hop and African music. 

For some years, Harun Demiraslan frequently met with the drummer Florent Marcadet KLONE, and at the beginning of 2009 he suggested the idea of creating a band around this notion of music. As their approach of music was similar, the two musicians quickly started working together to further develop the project. They both saw what was possible in terms of musical potential, and didn’t hesitate to start practicing together. A few jam sessions were enough to establish the foundations for the band. 

Following the incorporation of the bass player Lucas Rousselot PITCHOUTCHOULEX in the project, they were able to work on the texture of the sound in a more coherent way. They worked on arrangements for a while, but in order to get the orchestration they wished to achieve, they decided to become a quartet. They then asked a mutual friend and talented guitarist, Aldrick Guadagnino SINSCALE, to join the group. Aldrick Guadagnino became very interested in the project, and accepted to join the group at the end of 2009. After completing the line-up and immediately feeling the synergy, the members felt the need to record an album quickly. 

Due to other engagements, Lucas Rousselot left the group right before they went into the studio. However, bass player Stéphane Dupé VARIUS FUNKUS was brought in to fill his place. After finishing rehearsals with the new bassist, the band went into the studio. Under the leadership of the producer Fabien Guilloteau (NOMAD STUDIO), STEP IN FLUID finally found its shape as a band with the recording of their first album “ONE STEP BEYOND” during April 2010. 

STEP IN FLUIDs debut is the first step on a journey of uncompromising musicianship, unwilling to just rewrite the codes of a genre, but wanting to span several and combine different musical cultures into one coherent sound. The esthetics of this sound is a synthesis of heavy music meeting exotic sounds and jazz. If one was to attempt to suggest a genre for this band, it could be a kind of “Mutant jazz-core”. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Step+in+Fluid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.