MEMBERS:
Marcus Hammarström: Vocals/Bass
Jimmy Ahovalli: Lead/Rhythm Guitar
Simon Olovsson: Rhythm Guitar
Viktor (Bingan) Bingselius: Drums

Sterbhaus is a four-piece thrash/death combo of Stockholm that since the start in 2007 has proved well that quality and a neatly weighed dose of humor can blend in perfect symbiosis.

That’s the short version.

The more elaborate presentation would include that the band is among Stockholms finest and most appreciated live acts. Having played Metaltown 2009 (Marilyn Manson, Slipknot, Opeth, The Haunted etc), Sthlm Thrashfest 2009 and 2010 as well as larger headlining gigs at clubs in Stockholm (always boasting insane whipping thrash/death metal), to name a few before heading into the Studio Abyss in the summer of 2011 to record a brand new album

Originally a five-piece act with members from an array of Stockholm based extreme metal bands Sterbhaus evolved into a quartet with Marcus Hammarström (of Elvira Madigan) -previously solely on bass/additional vocals, on lead vocals to accommodate the more versatile, thrashing and competent direction of today.

…And the humor? Yes, the humor will always be important in Sterbhaus. But as it previously focused on folly and plain stupidity, it has of late become a bloody crusade of tounge-in-cheek wit and observational verbal slaughter, and always cloaked in either clever turns of phrases or razor sharp clarity. Sterbhaus is truly about a smirk or two, but let’s not forget the more important issue on the agenda. Devoid of stereotypical make believe, pretend or cheap shots at creating fancy gimmicks for an easy buck, Sterbhaus is more about the genuine belief and honest musicality and this is the strongest foundation in the band. What you see is what you get, and what you get is a bloody good ride. Sterbhaus is 100% for real and much needed a cleansing in a diluted world of metal.

The album “Hits For Dead kids” was recorded in Abyss studios (Marduk, Immortal, Shining, Sabaton etc) during six days in late 2008 and was released in 2009. It spawned two videos of which the latter – for the song “The House of the Dead Dwarf” stirred quite the fuzz in Stockholm due to the brilliant nonsensical story of the band featured as sockpuppets and earned Sterbhaus a post in the blog of Mathias Kling of one of Swedens largest tabloids.

2011 and 2012 will see Sterbhaus busy on stage again and at a larger extent than earlier. It will be a full re-launching of the band and when everything is on track… the new album will be released. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sterbhaus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.