Stereochrist (formerly known as Super Natural) was founded in May 2002 by members of Hungary's premier doom-metal band, Mood. Disbanded at the end of 2001 Mood previously released 4 LPs and circulated the underground scene with a number of successful shows including the Flag of Doom series of festivals with appearances by Spirit Caravan, Crowbar and Beaver.

Following the band's break-up guitarist Hegyi Kolos, drummer Koltay Tamás and bass player Megyesi Balázs stayed tuned for a new heavier-than-life adventure to revoke their trade-mark sound in a more aggressive yet traditional form. Joined by vocalist Felföldi Péter, originally of aspiring stoner rockers Mothermoon the lineup was finalized at the end of May. (In an early phase of its development ex-Mothermoon guitarist Fung András also jammed with the band for a couple of months.)

A summer of intensive sessions brought forward a material of heavy riff-centric songs spiced with moderately popular melodies. The music of Super Natural lays on the basis of massive guitar work framed by traditionally simple structures and psychedelia-induced vocal harmonies. On top of it all there's a lyrical concept focusing on the self and its relation to the spiritual enlightenment - as in Hologram Man. Other songs, like Christ Was An Angry Man use irony to refer to such issues as the perils of ideological obsession.

In spring, 2003 the band signed a one album contract with the Florida-based label Arctic Music Group (www.arcticmusicgroup.com). The debut LP titled Dead River Blues was recorder during the summer of 2003 and will be released in the USA, Canada and Europe in March 2004. (The CD is licensed in Finland by Firebox Records.)

In june, 2004 Tamás Koltay (drummer) and Peter Felföldi (singer) had left the band so in august, a new singer David Mako joined the band. In oktober we absolvated our 10 days tour in europe with our new drummer Csaba Kludovácz, in the arrangement of PsycheDOOMelic Records.

A year later, in 2005 the band has recorded a 3 track demo live in a studio, which had gave the idea to the band to record their next studio album with this method as well. Recorded and released in 2006, Stereochrist has released their last album so far, entitled Live like a man (Die as a God). The band had a creative break in 2008, the members needed to rest the intensive touring and festival shows in the summer, currently they are recording and writing songs for their upcoming, third studio album in the autumn of 2009. 

Official site
Stereochrist.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stereochrist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.