1)Sternklang has four critically acclaimed albums, several vinyl releases and a bunch of remixes to his credit. His live performances are of a legendary calibre, much a statute to his uncanny ability to recruit the right live-musicians and challenge them with the right beats. 

His debut album, the aptly titled "Freestylespacefunk", was released in 1997 on Beatservice. Rave reviews followed; the press loved it and national radio gave the album lengthy airplay. Not a man to rest on his laurels, Brondbo assembled a competent live-crew and hit the road. Both Roskilde and the Quart festival were treated to the unique Sternklang-experience: steamin grooves, cluttering percussion and earth-shaking sub-bass. 

1999 saw the release of "Neolounge", and the reception was even more formidable this time. His exploration of classic 70's breaks coupled with a stylistically modern production approach went home with journalists, clubbers and DJ's alike. Ecstatic reviews and packed clubs solidified his status as one of the main acts on Norway's ever growing club-scene. 
Following the release of "Neolounge", Sternklang has toured extensively. Both Norway, Denmark, Sweden and UK have been greeted with his warm personality and irresistible musical crusade. Dozens of gigs have proved that Sternklang is more than able to straddle the narrow divide between electronic live-performance and static knob-twiddling. 

In-between his infectious grooves and structure-damaging breakdowns you'll find  Sternklang deep into his never-ending search for those serene melodies and that eternally unobtainable hook-line.  Unlike many of his peers' music, Sternklang's not one based entirely on grooves and beats - there's a strong sense of melody and form as well as catchyness.  Perhaps a testament to his maturity - both musically and age-wise?

His first release on dBut Records "Beautiful Thing" 7" was released fall 2000 and made quite an impact among DJs, fans and both the press and national radio. 

His third album "My Time Is Yours" is a selection of sublime tracks is the result of three years of innovation, frustration, pathfinding and plain hard work. This time Sternklang expanded his means of expression by inviting his faithful live musicians. Real bass and drums are featured on several of the tracks, leaving the listener with an overall feel of wholeness and maturity. Sternklang's age and civil status notwithstanding (he's married and has kids now), he won't go all soft on us. Despite titles like "Liebling" and "Beautiful Thing", Sternklang has not lost his edge and ability to shake the floor. Far from static and stereotype, this album oozes of genuine creativity and an unbeatable sense of rhytm and melody. With "My Time Is Yours", Sternklang displays an uncanny grasp of the zeitgeist only a select few can match. 


2006 saw the release of "transistor beach"

Visit his label here; http://dbut.no/

2) Sternklang is also a Grady Runyan/Liquorball sideproject. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sternklang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.