Celebrated composer and pianist extraordinaire Steven C. (a.k.a. Steven C. Anderson.) fills his busy life with the gift of music. Through his artistry and passion he delivers his heartfelt music in a way that is both enjoyable and accessible to an ever-growing fan base. Steven’s talent has been enjoyed
worldwide, via numerous recordings, live performances, and has graced the airwaves of NBC’s The Today Show, QVC, PBS, Oprah, Music Choice and the Discovery Channel.

As an established and respected recording artist, Steven C. has impressively sold well over 2 million records throughout his beloved canon of music, which includes the popular CD Chasing Grace (American Gramaphone), and a best selling series of nature-themed CDs with the acclaimed NorthSound Label.

His “Heart Strings” recording project, recorded in London at the famed Abbey Road Studios, (the “A” room) features all original compositions, and boasts the contributions of Grammy Award™ winning conductor Arnie Roth (Andrea Bocelli, Charlotte Church, Warner Bros., Records, Walt Disney Records) and the prestigious London Symphony Strings. This remarkable recording has been heralded as his best and most musically realized to date, and has elicited great response and interest throughout the music industry.

Classically trained and gifted with a keen ear and sensibility for all styles of music, Steven began his musical education with perfunctory piano lessons at home that many burgeoning artist endure —eventually perfecting his craft and distinctive style at respected Hamline University. It is at Hamline where he earned a BA in music and had the good fortune of studying extensively with the late jazz legend Manfredo Fest (Concord Jazz). Additionally, his alma mater recently honored Steven’s ever-expanding musical excellence by presenting him with the distinguished First Decade Award.

Beyond being an esteemed performing artist, which has included performing with Mannheim Steamroller, Steven also lends his in-demand musical talents to a select list of diverse and respected clients such as the Minnesota Timberwolves, Fitzgerald theater, MPR and as producer for the award winning “Baby Genius” series. In the early 90's, Steven became the Audio Director/Executive Producer for NorthWord Press - the successful Wisconsin-based record label that produced albums mixing music with the serene sounds of nature. Steven has produced over 400 successful titles for NorthWord Press, Madacy, Allegro and other noteworthy labels.

Additionally, along with other venerable musicians such as Tori Amos and Victor Borge, Steven proudly endorses the illustrious Bosendorfer piano.  His 9' concert grand centers his home and recording studio and gets a vigorous workout daily.

Steven is also proud to be associated with the Spare Key Foundation – a non-profit organization offering financial assistance to parents with critically ill children. Steven has produced a benefit CD entitled “Opus Derian,” in honor of Derian Keech; a 2-year-old Twin Cities boy who died of a rare disease referred to as CHARGE syndrome. Steven’s signature song for this special project “Opus Derian,” was highlighted on the Oprah Winfrey television show.

Feeling connected with historic spaces, Steven proudly lives and works from home. This unique and beautiful house he has restored over a two year journey. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Steven+C">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.