Stian Westerhus is one of Norway’s hardest working young improvisors playing in bands like Monolithic (with Kenneth Kapstad from Motorpsycho), Puma, Nils Petter Molvaer Group, Isungset/Westerhus, Bladed, Eldbjørg Raknes, Crimetime Orchestra and many more. 

For the last few years Stian Westerhus has put more and more energy into challenging the electric guitar alone on a stage. Having been blessed with little or no respect for the instrument his performances balance raw expressiveness, virtuousity and melodic instinct utilizing his Norwegian heritage as well as growing up listening to Slayer. 
With a soundscape far beyond the standard guitar he seeks to push the 
boundaries for improvised music across the muddy waters of genres. 

Stian Westerhus’ debut solo album “Galore” was released May 2009 on 
Rune Grammofon/TLRC, and Stian’s second solo album “Pitch Black Star Spangled” was released on Rune Grammofon by the end of May 2010. This time on CD, LP and digital format.


“The sense of menace is generated with huge energy by the belligerently brilliant Norwegian guitarist Westerhus who coaxes a plethora of tortured sounds from his axe, bowed notes elongating into harmonic dismemberment of epic proportions. (...) This is heady, sometimes heavy, otherworldly stuff, fuelled by jazz but never hindered by it. Welcome to the new century of improvised music." 
- JazzWise Magazine, U.K. 


Stian has also played with Arve Henriksen, Ståle Storløkken (Supersilent), Zach Hill (Hella), Lasse Marhaug Kjetil Möster, Paal Nilssen-Love, Trondheim Soloists, Trondheim Voices and many many more, as well as receiving awards like “Young Jazz Musician Of The Year” (N), “Molde International Jazz Festival Talent Award” (N) and “BBC’s Award for Innovation in Jazz” (UK). 

Stian Westerhus also writes and performs music for modern dance. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stian+Westerhus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.