STILL IT CRIES is a German Melodic Death Metal band.

In 1995 Matthias Kupka and Thomas Sonnenburg formed the band STILL IT CRIES, but it took some time before the suitable line-up was found to realise their musical visions.

Three years later the first rehearsal-demo, titled "The Lie In Beauty", was recorded. A year later it has been mixed and mastered professionally in a sound studio. The songs "The Last Embrace", "The Lie In Beauty" and "The Silence, My Friend" placed STILL IT CRIES on the first three positions on the internet-platform www.mp3.com. Fans and friends of the band compared the band at this time with bands like Paradise Lost, Anathema and My Dying Bride.

After bass-player Christoph Breddin was replaced by Robert Schultz, STILL IT CRIES began to write new songs, played several successful gigs and recorded in the turn of the year 2000/2001 the mini-album "A Dedication". The new songs sounded much better according to the songwriting. Furthermore the songs had some melancholic touch, but on the other hand the song "Twisted Thoughts" showed that also faster and more aggressive parts fit the musical style of the band.

In 2001 STILL IT CRIES had to separate from their keyboarder Matthias Breddin. The last line-up change was made in 2002. Guitar-player Thomas Sekler left the band and was replaced by Robin Boehm and Stefan Kawalla replaced bassist Robert Schultz. These line-up changes influenced the music, which now sounds more multi-faceted and combines brute, emotional and straight parts. In spite of this mixture the distinctive STILL IT CRIES-Sound is always identifiable.

In 2003 vocalist/guitarist Matthias Kupka joined Suidakra (but already left in the meantime). On the forthcoming Album "Take Leave" the band has developed their musical skills. STILL IT CRIES combine perfect harmonies with Swedish melodies. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Still+It+Cries">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.