There are many bands named Stillborn:
1) Blasphemous Death/Black Metal band from Poland.
2) Doom Metal band from Sweden ('84- present)
3) NYHC band formed in '84. They had several demos and an album Questions Left Unanswered.
4) Technical Death Metal band from Netherlands.
5) Female fronted gothic/prog Metal band from Malta. 
6) Rapper from Norway known for his collaborations with the norwegian horrorcore rapper Bad Spit.
7) Young Metalcore band from England who have worked with Devil Sold His Soul guitarist Johnny Renshaw 
8) Death/Thrash metal band from Serbia, from the city Jagodina. The band changed their name to Stillborn Sun!
9) Italian Heavy Metal band.
10) German Black/Death Metal band from Mosbach city.
11) German Metalcore/Melodic Thrash Metal band from Mönchengladbach city.
12) 80s Thrash Metal from USA. Released 1 demo in 1987.
13) British Thrash/Death Metal band.
14) Hardcore - Austria (Vienna)
Bios:


1.) The polish Stillborn :


Desecration Era
1997 STILLBORN is formed in Mielec (PL) by  Killer & Gopher.
1999 Beetween July, 29th and August, 2nd the band records its first demo "Mirrormaze", in Manek Studio, Sanok (PL), with Arek "Malta" Malczewski as sound engineer.
2000 Dgi joins the band as bass guitar player.
2001 Second demo, entitled "Die In Torment 666" comes in July, recorded at Hertz Studio, Białystok (PL).
Vocalist M joins the band.
2002 Łukasz Urbanek takes Gopher`s place behind the percussion kit.
2004 "Announcement of Forthcoming Desecration (Promo 2004)", is released by Time Before Time Records as a split with AZARATH called "Death Monsters".

Satanas Era
2004 Ikaroz joins the band.
In december "Satanas el Grande", the full-length debut, is out. Album has been recorded in Hertz Studio again, under supervision of Wiesławski Brothers and released by Pagan Records.
2006 Reorganisation of the band.  Weak arms are being cut off.
August & ataman Tolovy join the band.
The work over new compositions begins.

Blasfemia Era
2007 During the spring STILLBORN prepares and records the eleven death's anthems at Kwart Studio (Bochnia, PL) & Screw Factory Studio (Dębica, PL).
Second album entitled "Manifiesto de Blasfemia" is unleashed  in September, 22nd.
In november STILLBORN with DECEPTION organize on their own the Legions Of Death Attack Tour with guest appearance of AZARATH as headliner.
At the end of the year, the band works on new stuff which will be produced during a few months.

Rebelión Era
2008 During several weekends of the first mid-year emerges „Esta Rebelión Es Eterna”, a tribute to unholy metal, consisting of five individual songs and four cover songs of bands which created the foundations of the genre. The entire album was produced and mixed in Factory Studio, Dębica (PL) by Janusz Bryt and released 1th of September by Dissonance Records.
In the meantime the band gives live performances with Angelcorpse, Impiety or Arkhon Infaustus. In November the group marches on with second edition of Legions of Death Attack, shoulder to shoulder with Infernal War, Anima Damnata, Deception and Hetzer.
2009 At the beginning of March, STILLBORN records its own version of peruvian Mortem`s „A Demon Tale” song, to put it on the tribute album to this band, as one of two hordes from Europe invited by the publisher. Simultaneously starts the process of composing the music and lyrics for the next STILLBORN`s album.

Current STILLBORN's (PL) line-up: 
Killer [guitars, vocals]
Ikaroz [guitars, vocals]
ataman Tolovy [bass guitar, backing vocals]
August [drums]

STILLBORN (PL) on-line:
http://www.stillborn.pl/
http://www.myspace.com/naturalborndestroyers
http://www.youtube.com/profile?user=stillbornpl
----------


2.) The swedish Stillborn :


It all started in early 1984, when Kari Hokkanen and Petter Bryneson met Ingemar Henning. Kari and Petter were about to form a band, and they needed a guitarist to get started. Henning, who had been playing the guitar for only a year, accepted the offer to be in the band.
.....They made one obscure gig under the name The Cranium, before they realised that they needed a second guitarist. They met Erik Sandqvist at the legendary Einstürzende Neubauten concert in Gothenburg 1984, and since he owned a Fender Twin Reverb, he could consider himself hired.
.....They made a lot of local gigs, some in Denmark as well, during 1985-86, and released their tape Tounge the thong (yes, it's misspelled) in 1985. It was made in 100 numbered copies, and became rare immediately. Petter left the band in 1986, and Peter Asp took his place as the drummer.
.....Soon they started to record what would become their debut Necrospirituals (released 1989), they didn't have a contract yet, but a deal was signed with Radium in 1988. Necrospirituals divided the critics in two halves; either they loved it, or they hated it. Nowadays, Necrospirituals have become a real cult-record. Songs from it have been covered by Paradise Lost and Entombed, amongst others.
.....Stillborn did a concert at the Hultsfred Festival in 1989, but soon after that the lead-singer Kari left the band. To replace Kari booth as a singer and as a bass-player, Henrick Karlsson and Sami Miari joined the band. The new line-up did a concert at the Berlin Independence Days festival in 1989, but soon after that Erik also left the band.
.....When Kim replaced Erik, the final line-up were complete, and the record company (Radium) they were signed to, was sold to MNW Record Group. They released The permanent solution 1991, and State of disconnection 1992, both recorded in Silence Studio, located in the deep Swedish forest.
.....The band did a lot of concerts, such as Popkomm, Cologne 1991 and Roskilde Festival 1992. They also did a couple of European tours.
.....In 1994 when the plans were to make a fourth record, things didn't worked out as expected, and Stillborn were history. But the members weren't history: Sami, Kim and Henning formed Colossus, together with Messiah Marcolin (Candlemass, Memento Mori), and Peter continued with Mary Beats Jane.
-----------

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stillborn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.