There are more than a dozen artists that have recorded under the name Still:

1. STILL is a moniker of Milan-based musician Simone Trabucchi (a.k.a. Dracula Lewis) who is also a member of Doro Bengala, Invernomuto and Sex Boyz. He is also involved with Hundebiss Records. Trabucchi's project STILL is dedicated to a personal reinterpretation of computerized dub and early digital dancehall. Trabucchi released his debut album "I" on the Pan label in 2017. This was followed a year later by "I (Remixed)".

In the summer of 2018, Trabucchi held a two-month residency in Kampala, Uganda at the Nyege Nyege Tapes label and collective’s villa, in collaboration with their sublabel Hakuna Kulala. Collaborating with various local vocalists, the result was the mix tape album Kikommando, which was released in 2021 and named after a Ugandan street food dish of flat bread and beans,

2. Still is the UK chillout project of Brendan Huston and Tom Evans, with a more organic sound than most other chillout. Between 2005 and 2011 they released tracks on various compilations. Tracks include: "All in the Water (feat Cathy Batistessa)", "Coming Home", "Kumasi Junction", "Time" (feat Anthony Smith" and "Waste".

3. Still is a blackened Post Metal band from Hull, UK. Released the album {} in 2021.

4.  Still was the project of Jamaica-raised New York based DJ, producer and musician Hsi Chang Lin (died April 2018), Hsi Chang Lin was a former turntablist for the abrasive political Hip-Hop crew Dälek. He pioneered the notion of "ambient turntablism" with his 2005 debut album "Remains". Created using only Technics 1200s and a host of delay pedals he demonstrated the new depths to which the turntable can be used as an instrument, which was only hinted at on Dälek's LP "Abscence".

 5. Still was a female-fronted new wave band from Japan formed in 1982. They released two EPs in 1985, Pale Face and Real Time, and made an appearance on a compilation in 1987. Drummer Teiyu Nakamura, also involved with the Japanese no wave band Jagatara and punk legends [artistThe Stalin, is credited their singles.

6. STILL  is the power-pop/rock-pop project of Alaskan-born Los Angeles-based singer-songwriter Wade Biery. Guitar-based pop similar to "XTC" or "Del Amitri" meshed with rock energy with a touch of country-pop added to the mix. He released the album "I Don't Mind" in 2001.

Wade has had the good fortune to perform with many excellent performers in the music business ranging from Leanne Rimes and Carlene Carter to Dillon O’Brian, Joe Cocker, The Turtles, Latin-Rock superstar Miguel Mateos, Christopher Cross and many more. http://www.stillmusic.com/wordpress

7. Still was a side project for 3 members of echolyn: Brett Kull (vocals & guitar), Paul Ramsey (drums & percussion) and Ray Weston (bass & vocals). They recorded their first album after echolyn split up in 1996, called Always Almost. The follow-up was released 1997 under the band name of Always almost and was called God Pounds His Nails. Both albums were released on Pleasant Green Records.

8. Still is an alt-country band featuring a past member of legendary Australian slowcore act Bluetile Lounge.

9. Alternative rock band from Karlskrona, Sweden.

10. An instrumental post-rock band from Singapore.

11. Heavy Shoegaze band from St. Louis, Missouri that was formed in 2020 by Michael Hoeltge, Ben Koeing, David Shanle (New Lives, Time and Pressure), and Chris Wright. 
https://soundcloud.com/stillstl
https://stillstl.bandcamp.com/

12. A hardcore punk band from Odessa, Ukraine. Released the album Сквозь Пустоту in 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Still">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.