Back in 1998 rised in Florianópolis city the band Still Life. Featuring George Froes on vocals, Giuliano Schmidt and Rafael Scopel on the guitars, Carlos Satan on bass and Edy Souza on drums, the band started to perform and be noticed by the underground metal scene of Santa Catarina state.

In only two years of existence the band has been worshipped for the single “The Crab Ship Arise”, collecting great reviews from the local metal magazines. National and international publications like Rock Brigade, Roadie Crew, Metal Head and Valhalla Metal Magazine claimed Still Life to be one of the best upcoming bands of brazillian metal scene. The band started to get fans from different countries, like Belgium, Greece, Portugal, Indonesia, Mexico, Germany and Japan. In only one month the first press of the single was sold out and they toured through Santa Catarina, playing with Angra, Dr. Sin and Edguy.

In 2004, with different line-up (Giuliano on vocals/guitars and Joey Bertola on drums), the first full-lenght record was released. The local media considered their new sound as very original and got surprised by a completely independent album to sound so professional.

Around one year later of the album release, Rafael Scopel left the band. To replace him was recruited their long-time friend Gabriel Hahn (Nevralgia). Richarli Brose, who was a stage member finally joined the band replacing Joey. With the new line-up they released in 2007 the EP “Hellcome”. Once again with positive reaction from the media, they started the “Hellcome the tour”, playing on the biggest open-air festival of Santa Catarina and Wacken Metal Battle Brazil (brazillian stage of the biggest metal festival of Germany) in Porto Alegre/RS.

October of 2009 Carlos Satan leaves Still Life and the band, now with the new bassist André Wendhausen, change name to Still Life Remains and releases the 2nd full-lenght album entitled "Vanitas". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Still+Life+Remains">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.