Sven Eric Gamsky, known professionally as Still Woozy (born June 23, 1992), is an American singer and songwriter from Oakland, California. He is signed to to Interscope Records. Gamsky grew up in Moraga, California, in the San Francisco Bay Area. 

After he went viral with the R&B-inflected "Goodie Bag" in 2017, he continued to release one-off tracks until presenting the Lately EP in 2019. It included another streaming hit, "Habit."

Growing up in Moraga, California, Gamsky began playing the guitar in middle school and recording his own music when he was 13. While in high school, he played guitar and bass in the band Shoot the Roots, which also featured classmates Cole Leksan and Jack Morris. After graduating in 2010, Gamsky played in the indie rock band Feed Me Jack and gave guitar lessons while attending the University of California, Santa Cruz. As a music major, he studied classical guitar while minoring in electronic music. He completed his degree in 2015, and Feed Me Jack called it quits the following year.

Gamsky debuted his solo project, Still Woozy, with the warped and jazzy "Vacation" in April 2017, following it weeks later with "Cooks," which proved to be a streaming breakthrough. Later the same year, the highly stylized soul of "Goodie Bag" became an even bigger online hit, amassing tens of millions of streams. He released periodic singles over the next year-and-a-half until landing a distribution deal with Interscope for his label Still Woozy Productions. They released the debut EP Lately EP in May 2019. It contained "Habit," which became his biggest hit since "Goodie Bag."

Still Woozy returned with more original material in 2020, including "Window" and "Cheesin'," the latter a collaborative track for Republic Records with artists including Cautious Clay, Remi Wolf, and Claud. Back on his own, he kicked off 2021 with "Rocky." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Still+Woozy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.