There are multiple artists with the name Stiletto


1. -  Hardcore band from Singapore. The band consists of members from Fluke, Bethari, Doldrey, Unsub, Zodd and Fuse…sort of a side project. They play like fast raging hardcore punk for the likes of Necros, Koro, Neos to name a few.

https://stilettohardcore.bandcamp.com/


2. - Hi. We are Stiletto! and We play music together which we choose to call "Indie/Rock [crunk]"

It seems as though in this area most people have forgotten how to have fun. We have taken it upon ourselves to show everyone that they really do remember how to break it down and have a good time every once and awhile.
We love our fans and our friends.[who are coincidentally the same people]
We love playing shows, making new songs, and recording them.
AND
We love to talk to everyone who has anything to say. No matter who you are or what you want to talk about, let it rip, and we'll get back to you as soon as we can.
Peace! <3 - Stiletto!
P.S. Nast it.


3. - Like so many other band-names, also Stiletto was used by another band before ...
Stiletto was a Swiss band founded by Christoph Stiefel that recorded 2 CD's. One of them with the same name and with a fantastic cover illustration by Düde Dürst in 1988. The second CD, produced in 1990 was named Pangani.
they played a very nice Funky Jazz.
the members of the band:
Christoph Stiefel - Keyboards
Christian Ostermeier - Sax
Thomas Jordi - Bass
Jojo Mayer - Drums
Jon Otis - Percussion

more infos: www.christophstiefel.ch

4. - Stiletto is also a Memphis-based drum & bass DJ.  
Her influences include Pendulum and Bachelors of Science

5. - Heavy Metal band formed in 1984 in San Jose, California. Released 'Blame It on Youth' in 1987.

6.  - Canadian all-girl rock band consisting of Ann Greenwood, Carole Couture, Caroline Soucy, Lori Hoppenheit, Tracey Hilderley. Released Don't Call Me Sweetie in 2017.

7. - 80s Hair band tribute band, based in Imperial Valley, CA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stiletto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.