There are six bands named Stitch: 

(1) A defunct Swedish heavy metal band that released the single 'Devil's Deal' in 1982, two demos in 1982 and 1985, and an non-metal AOR single ('You Light my Fire') in 1988.

(2)A metalcore band from San Jose, CA that had a shortlived but explosive existence. They were compared to bands like Soulfly, Sepultura, Chimaira, and Deftones. Live, they were a force to be reckoned with, creating an atmosphere of chaos that wowed crowds all over the west coast. Tragedy struck the band in 2001 when, on tour, the band was traversing Highway 1 along the coast in California between San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara. Apparently an altercation broke out between the the band and a big rig on the highway, and the truck driver cut them off sending their van off the highway and down a 300 foot cliff into the sea. All members and their road crew were killed instantly, and to this day you can see the memorial on the side of the highway where they lost control and fell to their deaths.

(3) A solo act from UK that has been creating electronic music for over 15 years. Stitch himself, having had success in former band "Mainstream Distortion" (whom were signed under cult UK label "Some Bizzare Records") is now working on a second fully militaristic cyberpunk album. 
Stitch has been compared to Alec Empire, Chu Ishikawa, Nine Inch Nails and bands alike. Because of the confusion of artist pages please find stitch on the stitchx9 page.
The album Hardwired is a free album available to download.

(4) A British act formerly known as Stitched-back Foot Airmen who released the Manic and Global Album and some singles.

(5)  a new up and coming band located in tampa, florida with a distinct sound combining metal, punk, electronica, hiphop, reggae and alternative. founded in 2010 by j-sinner formally of kritikal resistance.

(6) Darkpsy From Russia , During several years of producing music… After many collaborations with a whole lot of musicians in the psytrance scene, uncountable compilation and album releases over the past few years, Stitch from russia will release a 10 track album of VS and REMIX tracks with some well known up and coming musicians. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stitch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.