1) Long Island based Heavy Psychedelic Rock Band.
Though they made one of the finest hard rock album of the late 1969s, the story of stonewall was shrouded in mystery for decades, and will probably never be fully known. 
Only a handful of copies of their intense LP, issued on the notorious Tiger Lily label, have surfaced, and have sold for up to $5000. Consisting of Bruce Rapp (vocals), Ray Dieneman (guitar), Robert Demonte (bass) and Tony Assalti (drums), Stonewall were based in Long Island, where they worked as house band for a studio owned by one Jimmy Goldstein, who also played occasional keyboards on sessions and performed on his own as Jay James (under which name he recorded a C&W-styled album which also appeared on Tiger Lily). 

In between playing on other peoples sessions, Stonewall also found time to hone their own brand of dense and hook-laden hard psychedelic rock, and took advantage of Goldsteins studio facilities to tape an albums worth of their own material. This had not been issued by the time they split up, apparently in late 1969, but it mysteriously showed up on Tiger lily in 1974. Tiger Lily wasn´t a real label, but a ruse devised by the notorius Morris Levy to enable him to offset losses on his much larger Roulette label. 

The concept was to find as many vaguely releasable tapes as possible, have them pressed up as low-run albums, then claim they´d been a lot more expensive to record and manufacture than tey really were. 
The members of stonewall had no idea their music had been released until Dieneman spotted a copy of the finished LP in Goldsteins New York home. Quite how Goldstein and Levy got together isn´t known, but only a tiny number of stonewall albums seem to have been pressed, in keeping with most other albums on the label, and though the band are known to have recorded other tracks, it is unknown whether they have survived

2) hardcore band from Belgrade/Serbia (1993-1997).


3) A Heavy Metal band from Italy. Formed in 2006. Stonewall released its debut album "Victims of Evil" in 2011.

4) A hardcore band from Virginia Beach, Virginia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stonewall">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.