There are different bands sharing the name Stonehenge.

1, The active one is the progressive metal band from Hungary, started in 1992 by Balázs Bóta (guitar) and Sándor Jutasi (bass). 
Their only official releases are Angelo Salutante (Full-Length, 2001) and Nerine (EP, 2005). www.stonehenge.hu
After going through many line-up changes, the band currently consists of the only original member 
Zoltán BÁTKY (BZ) - vocals
Balázs BÓTA - guitars
Sándor JUTASI - bass
Kristóf SZABÓ - drums
The keyboard player's name is not yet official.
The band is currently writing a new studio material after many years of silence...

2, Stonehenge is also Russian doom/death metal, more info here: http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=5923.
Their releases are:
1994 Victims (demo)
1996 Victims Gallery
1997 Tales of Old Britain
1999 Sense of Doom
2001 Scum Brigade

3, There is also a disbanded one-tape doom metal band from Poland.
Line-up:
Małgorzata Chwalisz - female vocal
Rafał Paszkiewicz - vocal, keyboards
Rafał Zwarycz - guitars
Rafał Nowakowski - guitars
Mikołaj Szymborski - bass
Michał Jastrzębski - drums

4, Stonehenge is also a progressive rock band, which played in south France between 1991 and 1994, and recorded a 26 minutes piece named Stonehenge in 1993.

5.Stonehenge was a heavy metal - power metal band from Auckland , New Zealand. They were formed in 1980 and consisted of : 
Vocals : Djamil Rodop
Guitars : Ashley Barton
Guitars :Anton Jelicich
Bass : Phil Drake
Drums : Carl Mackie
Their EP Wings Of Steel was recorded in Lab studios (Australia) and was released by Jayrem Records .on 1986 . 
Hard 'n' Heavy Rarities vol.17 featured this EP.
Stonehenge also appeared with the track "Warlords" (later re-named to "Burnin' fever") on the "Attack from Down Unda" Compilation 1986. 

6. There is also a Polish band called Stonehenge, playing celtic folk music.

7. Stonehenge from Potsdam (Germany) combines heavy riffs with a psychedelic-melodic character.These cats from Berlin´s neighbourhood not only play their sound – they live it!! 
myspace.com/stonehengedoom
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stonehenge">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.