The Deathmarch Crushes On…the album title says it all. Stonecreep is a band that has seen many ups and downs.  Despite it all, after more than half a decade, the band continues to soldier forward. Stonecreep’s story begins in the midwestern city of Fargo, North Dakota with four musicians whose prime goal was to make metal the way it was intended: raw, uncompromising, and above all bombastic and fun, the way the pioneers of the genre did it. One by one the members of the group migrated to Portland, Oregon and Stonecreep was born.

     The band quickly won over audiences with their super high-energy stage shows and a unique style that can only be described as “ultra-epic thrash n’ roll”. They recorded and released three independent albums: Keep the Hammer Down, Tonight We Ride, and We Bleed Disaster. Each recording displayed a sophistication and musical progression over the one that preceded it. Tonight… and …Disaster both appeared in Brave Words & Bloody Knuckles annual Top 10 Unsigned/Demo Releases list and all three CD’s have received rave reviews from the world’s top metal publications. This has only further cemented the band’s growing importance in the metal underground.

      In 2009 Stonecreep entered the studio with producer/engineer Stephan Hawkes to record The Deathmarch Crushes On. The album is without a doubt the band’s finest work to date, combining elements of both old and new to take their sound to a new level. Using all of the musical tools at their disposal, Deathmarch is a lethal cocktail of crunching guitars, thunderous drums and bass, soaring leads and a passionate, multi-faceted vocal approach. Metal Maniacs magazine may have said it best when they described the band as having “as much Metallica and Accept persuasion at play as there is Black Label Society and Motorhead, if collected and melted down into a single metal silver bullet”, and as “cock-rockin’ banger fuel that’s perfect for the bar, car or air guitar anytime”. 

     Watch for the band on tour as well as adding to an already impressive list of national (and international) opening slots in their area. The ‘Creep is bringing the show to you, because against all odds, the deathmarch crushes on!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stonecreep">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.