Ston'd is a metal band hailing from Bangalore. Its story starts in the summer of 2005 when Anoop (bass) and Abijith (vocals) met Aditya (guitars) for the first time in a mutual friend’s jam room. No one had a clear idea about what they wanted their band to sound like. There was a huge difference in influences ranging from Lamb of God to Korn to the ‘80s band Scorpions. Nothing really came out of that first meeting. Aditya got an offer from another band. Abijith went on to do vocals for the nu-metal act Schnellpsyche. After a couple of months, and a couple of chance meetings with the future guitarists of Ston’d, the band was finally formed at the end of 2006. The original line up consisted of Abijith on vocals, Hitesh and Sudhir on guitars, Anoop on bass and Karthik on drums.
Debuting in "Unwind Underground", and after around seven shows, the band saw a line up change with Aditya, who had first met Abijith and Anoop 2 years ago, replacing Hitesh on guitars.
The band has always maintained that with heaviness in music, there must be a perfect balance of melody as well. Technical Guitar riffs and drumming patterns with melodious leads and heavy vocals define the band's sound.
Shows played include "Unwind underground", Campus Rock Idols 2007, and National Law School - Strawberry Fields 2006 to name a few. Ston'd has already played a few out-station gigs, including the 2007 Pondicherry Freedom Jam, which was followed by the Manipal Institute of Technology fest Revels ’07, where the band placed third, and a few college gigs, including the SJBIT and BMSCE college fests where the band placed second in both instances. The band is a regular at the Sunday Jams. They recently finished first at Bishop Cotton Women’s Law College, securing the Best Guitarist and Best Bassist as well. The band aims to play at every show possible, both in and outside Bangalore.
Long-term aims include recording and releasing a demo album.
Says their biggest fan: “Brilliant vocals, mind-blowing guitars, rock-solid bass and perfect drumming. Not only are they the best band that I’ve seen, they’re also the nicest and most down-to-earth people I’ve ever met.”
If you care about none of the above, the music speaks for itself. Headbang on!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/sToN%27d">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.