Stonebride is a band from Zagreb, Croatia, that seek its own musical and spiritual philosophy through endless fields of blues driven, sludge amped and psychedelic rock spaces, since the winter of 2005. Band recorded and self-released three track EP called SMILE & SHINE in September 2006. Huge ammount of gigs were played in Croatia, Slovenia and the first European tour took place after it was recorded. In 2007. the band worked on new songs and recorded them for a future release.

The legendary engine-ear and producer, mr. Billy Anderson who has worked with the bands as Neurosis, The Melvins, Sleep, Kiss It Goodbye, EyeHateGod, Fantomas, High On Fire, Om, Sick Of It All, Bottom, Cavity, Bongzilla, Acid King, Los Natas, Suma etc., took care of mixing, mastering and additional noising of the album! It is titled "Inner Seasons" and it shows the bands' intension to progress and to evolve even more.

In 2008. the band went on several occasions to play all over Europe (Slovenia, Italy, Belgium, Austria, Nederland and Germany) which also included a month long tour in May 2008. On that tour the band was approached by a record label who shared the same passion and vision for the music. As a result, "Inner Seasons" ended up beeing Stonebrides' first official release on CD, through Berlin based Seta.light records In Germany.

Playing gigs lead them to share the stages with Suma, UltraPhallus, FLU.ID, Get Hustle , Zippo and Vandal X. Also Stonebride was invited to play on this years 5th edition of the legendary SWAMP ROOM MANIA FESTIVAL in Munchen, Germany which included bands Colour Haze, The Freeks, My Sleeping Karma, Cherry Choke and Majmoon among others. Vinyl release of the album is scheduled to be released by the end of 2008.

The band is allready booking shows for a two week tour in February and a month long tour in May 2009. through Europe as well as writing songs for the new album due to be recorded next year. Some members of Stonebride have played or still play in bands: Good Day To Die, Igut, Chang Ffos and Bastinado.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stonebride">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.