Stonewall Noise Orchestra or S.N.O. for short, formed in 2004, is rooted in the beautiful industrial city of Borlänge, Sweden.
Their music might be influenced by 70′s groovy rock along with many other sources of inspiration, everything from the haunting nerve of the delta blues to the ultra modern fat sounds of today. Whatever feels right at the moment is what ends up on their recordings.
In 2005 they signed with Daredevil Records for their full length debut “Vol. 1″.
This album was recorded at Pophouse, Borlänge. Snicken and Mr. Pillow borrowed a studio from
a friend and did what they could..or couldn’t do with it, trying their best to engineer and produce an album. With “Vol.1″ and a bunch of compilations released ,the band’s been touring europe and built a reputation for their intense and uncompromising live performances.

In 2006 the microphone was temporarily passed over to John Hermansen (Mother Misery) who joined the recordings of the second album produced by Robert Ekholm. John also teamed up for some touring with the orchestra while Singe, the original singer took a break from the band. In 2008 , Singe rejoins the orchestra and they sign a deal with The Unit Music Company and the second album called “Constants In An Ever Changing Universe” is released October 29.
“Constants…” got great reviews and this opened up for more touring, which by the way is the No. 1 purpose of the band.
S.N.O. was featured in Classic Rock Magazine and appeared on the magazines compilation “New music of 2009”.

Late 2009 the band head in to their own newly built Studio 454 to record and produce their third album. This little baby is called “Sweet Mississippi Deal” and it’s released on Transubstans Records october 2010 and of course it was followed up with more touring.
S.N.O. has toured with and supported bands like Warrior Soul, Blindside, Entombed and Brant Bjork.
Thanks to Studio 454, a nightliner called Mothership and a brand new album called “Salvation” (Transubstans Records) the band is once again ready to roll and of course Rock!
Salvation is released on CD, LP and digital in February 2013. It’s the fourth full length album in order.

Band Members anno 2013: Mike-Guitar * Snicken-Guitar * Singe-Vocals * Mr.Pillow-Drums * Jonas-Bass
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/StoneWall+noise+orchestra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.