There are multiple artists with the name Stormtrooper:

1)   Stormtrooper alias Peter Nitschke started Dj-ing 1997 in small Clubs in his Hometown Rosenheim. It didnt take long until everybody knew that his sound was too hard for most of the parties, so he started playing in towns like Munich and Salzburg, where more people liked the harder sound. In 2002 he founded his own small Label called SCUM Records, where he compiled CD-Compilations with Hardcore Acts from all over Germany, especially new talents, but also already known producers. Everything got bigger very quick, and in 2003 he got signed by Lenny Dees famous Label Industrial Strength Records, where he was part of the massive comeback of ISR with his first vinyl release. After productions for ISR other Labels like Speedcore (Germany), the well known Dutch Mokum Records and Deathchant (UK) followed. Dj Stormtrooper played at many big Hardcore Parties all over Europe. 
  
2) Stormtrooper were a (USA) power metal band from Arizona, USA. Featuring Mick Sweda on guitars.
This EP is Stormtroopers only contribution to the 80’s metal scene. It proves that they had the potential to become a big monster in those days, but after this release it was over and they broke up forever. It seems they had the same fucking problems as dozens of bands of that time, such as no proper record distribution, label problems etc. As it is now this one and only release gives them somehow a total obscure appeal. 

 As far as the music goes they take the best parts from heavy/power metal and combine it with some sheer thrash brutality. It’s all there, shrieky soloing, powerful midpaced rhythm sections, catchy melody lines and shouting vocal parts ala Exciter in their “Violence and Force” era. The opening track is a somehow long intro, where you hear some bad weather, a bell and a sinister spoken passage. It’s like they recorded this one on a rainy Sunday morning somewhere in a graveyard with a terrible hangover, belching out some cheesy bullshit and went back returning to their beds, but it definitely works well. After this speech hell’s unleashed and all poodles will run for their lives. The title track penetrates your head and will stick there forever, as goes for the rest of the EP. “Steamroller” might sound cheesy at first listen but believe me, after a while it will logically fit within the rest of the songs. “Search And Destroy” is another thrashy power metal splatter with a great chorus. The last track “The Beast Within”, is the highlight of this fest, it’s mean, raw and tears your fucking flesh off. After this it’s over, but hey, for what reason are “repeat buttons” invented, yes that’s right, to play “Armies Of The night” over and over and over…The only drawback would be the production department, it’s bad, but it’s rawness contributes to their special appeal. 

 Another drawback would be that the original vinyl piece is rare as hell. There is also a picture disc which is even rarer. But don’t worry there are some bootlegs circulating (Reborn classic for example) and there’s a official cd re-release by High Vaultage with a better production, without losing it’s rawness of course, including some worthless bonus songs (alternated versions of the original songs). So for all nostalgic metal freaks, this one’s in the “buy or die” category. from metal archives

3)  Stormtrooper were a NWOBHM band from Bristol, UK, formed circa 1976.

4) Stormtrooper were a NWOBHM/Hard Rock band from Norwich (pre-The Angels). Formed around May 1978. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stormtrooper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.