Within a year Stormental rose from out of nowhere and became a pleasant heavy metal revelation from Brazil, conquering achievements not commonly seen. Instituted in January of 2006, the quartet compromises Alexei Leão (vocals), Andrei Leão (bass), Hique d'Avila (guitars) and Marcos Feminella (drums). 

Compositions blend the finest energy of heavy metal, the complexity of progressive rock and the speed of power metal. Defined as “Raw Prog-Metal”, this label was well received by the public – in Brazil and abroad. The baptism of fire was the first European Tour, when the band released their debut “Stormental” in the Old World. From August to September of 2006 Stormental performed in Germany, Belgium, Holland, Spain, Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia. 

On the same year, Stormental made their self-titled debut album available for free download at their official website, before everybody started doing it, and the repercussion was good in such a way that when the band toured Brazil, the crowd already knew all the songs from the album.

Being the debut album acclaimed by both public and the media, Stormental released in May of 2007 the “Unleashing the Madness” EP containing five tracks, including two new songs and three versions of older songs, been available only for digital download at first.

The next step was the ambitious production of a live DVD. A sold out night was recorded in the TAC Theater, a one-hundred years old place, located at the heart of Stormental’s hometown, in June of 2007. Nearly half thousand people saw a historical concert, produced in its whole by the band itself. Entitled “Mental Live Storm” and released on August of 2008, the DVD includes the complete concert, the official video clips, the documentary “European Tour 2006” and the “Unleashing the Madness” EP as bonus material. The promotion started with 15 gigs through Europe on the second European Tour, during October and November of 2008.

Once again with a pioneering attitude the band released, also on 2008, a customized 4 gigabyte USB stick-drive, baptized as Full Pack 2008 (version 1.0), holding the complete material (audio and video) including an exclusive bonus. Stormental ended the year recording an X-mass metal song called Metal in the Air.

For 2009, Stormental is focused on the release of their second studio album, which will be produced together with Siedler Dance Company. This studio work will also contain a special DVD with a live performance of Siedler’s opus “Perception of the Other”, created by the dance company in collaboration with Stormental. “In Front of You” is the first video from this masterpiece and it is already available on line.

Fear to dare? Never...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stormental">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.