STORMBLOOD (Death/Thrash Metal) - Recife/PE - Brazil
 -- Anti-human Deathsquad! -- 

2005 - 2010

Stormblood was a brazilian band from Pernambuco state (brazilian's northeast region). Usually playing a reviewed Eighties Thrash/Death Metal sound with warfare themes, they start  the horror in the year of 2005, after release the well-received demo called "Under the Warfog". Through the years, Stormblood still strong and after their last team change in 2008, turned into a morbid vein with unholy speed riffs and blasphemic scatological assault, spiting a venomous black/thrash attack against the weak's faces.

After the recording process for their second demo (unreleased yet), in the middle of 2010, they decided split-up to deal and push ahead some side projects (Beast Conjurator and Ancient Throne), turning these parallel works as main/full time bands.

Very soon, "SCATOLOGICAL BLASPHEMIES", their second and last demo, will be released as a postumus homage for their supporters' loyalty.

STORMBLOOD (LAST LINE-UP):
Thiago Satyr: Vocals (Beast Conjurator, Witching Altar)
Márcio Anthares: Guitars (ex-Carrasco)
Rodrigo Carcass: Bass
Hugo Opressor: Guitar (Beast Conjurator, Carrasco)
Clóvis Blasfemous: Drums

STORMBLOOD (PAST MEMBERS):
Adonay Carvalho: Guitars
João Ivson: Drums
Lucas Carvalho: Bass
Moab Junior: Guitars

LYRICAL THEMES:
EARLY: Human being himself, beligerant necessity, destruction desire, overmastering nature, limit recognizing difficulties and damages caused by destructive self nature
LATER: Anti-humanity, Scatological Blasphemy, Rough sexual rites.

MAIN INFLUENCES
Friedrich Nietzsche, Jean Paul Sartre and others... Speed velocity as: Destruction and Kreator, as well as MX (BRA), Pestilence, Desaster and Razor.

With friends and members' efforts Stormblood was born and they still friends after split.
All of them still acting at underground metal scenario in his home city, Recife (Pernambuco State).

R.I.P. [Root in Pee] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stormblood">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.