Stormzone is a heavy metal band from Northern Ireland, formed in 2006 by ex-Sweet Savage members vocalist John 'Harv' Harbinson and drummer Davy Bates. Sweet Savage will mostly be recognised as the band from which guitarist Vivian Campbell joined Ronnie James Dio. Metallica also recorded the Sweet Savage song 'Killing Time' as the B side of their 'The Unforgiven' single. 

Stormzone quickly signed to UK label Escape Music and released their debut album, 'Caught in the act' in 2007. This album also achieved a Japanese release through Marquee/Avalon and featured cover artwork by the legendary Rodney Matthews. Rodney had previously created album covers for Thin Lizzy, Diamond Head, Magnum and Praying Mantis.
 
In March 2008 Stormzone was invited to play with Dokken guitarist George Lynch on his European tour. The band would play as support and then return to the stage as headliners each night as George Lynch's band. This led to a great reception especially in Spain where they have returned several times touring with Cinderella, Sryper, LA Guns and Y&T. They have also played at Spain's biggest rock festival, Lorca Rock.
 
In 2009 Stormzone was invited to play at the Sweden Rock festival where they played on the Zeppelin stage just after Sabaton. A great performance gained them the interest of a representative from German label SPV and they signed to Olly Hahn's company in early 2010. This led to the release of the second Stormzone album, 'Death Dealer', which also saw the band take a heavier approach to song-writing. This led to very positive reviews all over Europe and Stormzone was quickly getting a reputation as fore-runners of the NNWOBHM (New New Wave Of British Heavy Metal). 'Death Dealer' was co-produced by the creator of the NWOBHM, Neal Kay, the legendary metal dj who brought Iron Maiden to the attention of their first deals.
 
A tour of the UK with Tesla came next, then shows with White Lion and Winger followed up by invitations to play at Raismesfest in France, Headbangers Open Air in Germany and then their biggest show so far, last year's Wacken Open Air festival. This very promptly encouraged SPV to release the third Stormzone album shortly after Wacken, and 'Zero To Rage' hit the review pages very positively in November 2011.
 
Stormzone have maintained their NWOBHM roots and the band is influenced by metal acts such as Saxon, Iron Maiden, Judas Priest and Queensryche and reviews of Death Dealer and Zero To Rage have seen comparisons also to Hammerfall and Helloween. The band is currently working with MVT Concerts in Germany and will be touring there in September 2012. This will also co-incide with the release of the 4th Stormzone album. The band are also in contention to have Stormzone music on an Irish/American production of a movie based on the warrior Cuchulainn. Working closely with Gabriel Management in 2012 will also enhance the Stormzone profile during what should be a very busy and productive year keeping the spirit of the NWOBHM alive!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stormzone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.