Stoutchild is a Turkish progressive power metal band which was founded by cousins Emre( guitars) and Mustafa ( early vocals , later drums ) in 2002 under a different name.They played with their friends for a while but the band failed for Emre and Mustafa's consideration and they droped other guys.Sometime later Erkin (vocal) , close friend of Emre from the high school , joined Stoutchild as second guitar player. The band's style was melodic death metal at those times. Especially they played swedish death metal songs ,which even today they inspire, by In Flames , Dark Tranquillty , Children of Bodom etc. besides their own songs. They also listened power and heavy metal bands and suddenly the band decided to turn their style into power metal from death metal. The line-up was Emre and Erkin on guitars and Mustafa on drums but there wasn't any singer.after a long time seeking Erkin took the responsibility for vocals because they couldn't find any singer. Later Taner ..boards and Yavuz on bass joined the band. They released a demo , including two songs, called ''Spreading Fire'' from their websites and it was liked by turkish metalheads , even by some Europen listeners. after 5 or 6 months Taner and Yavuz left the band because of the unagreements among the other band members but Stoutchild went on the way.After long and hard working days finally they finished the new demo '' Last Throne of My Fairy Tales Part 1'' including 2 songs.This time, Erkin took the respnsibility of keyboards and bass besides vocals. This new demo was recorded in ''Studyo Negatif '' and Stoutchild's home studio by the support of Ant Balci who is the owner of Studyo Negatif and friend of the band , also producer of the band. In a very short time , the second part of the '' Last Throne of My Fairy Tales '' will be released... 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stoutchild">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.