There is more than one artist named Strange:

1) Strange, http://www.myspace.com/strange; a contemporary psychedelic band from Raleigh, North Carolina.  They released the album "Things in Night" in 2005. Other songs have appeared on compilation albums.  A second album was begun, but has not been completed.  Strange still performs occasionally.  Vocalist David Mueller is currently the bass player for Birds of Avalon.  Bass player Lincoln Hancock was previously in The White Octave. 

2) Strange, formed 1990, split up 1999, was a pop-punk-trio from Frankfurt/Germany. They released two CDs and played loads of shows incl. the wellknown Rock am Ring-event in 1996, a supporting tour for the brits Dodgy and shows with Swervedriver and Samba.  The band was: Marco Pleil (now in Cloudberry) on bass/vocals,  Alexander Debus on guitar, and Alexander Lorenz on drums.  Their ep "Love And Other Atrocities", released on Mausoleum Records - distributed in the US by BMG Music - features a hard-rock version of The Boomtown Rats' hit "I Don't Like Mondays".

3) Strange is a psychedelic rock band from the 1960s from Orlando, Florida led by Terry R. Brooks. Terry is one of those guitarists who have made the solo his life goal, just like Randy Holden, Jimi Hendrix, Wilburn Burnchette, but not out of narcissism or anything like it just because the instinct of guitar genius allows them, when the muse strikes to improvise and create incredibly personal and unrepeatable weaving of sounds.

4) Strange  was a psychedelic rock band in Olympia Washington, close to the Canadian border. Strange was made up of Tom Hackett, Robert Rensel, David Chamberlain, Rick Rackleff plus Mike Pitcher, Don Morris & Carl Dexter. This art-rock-underground band recorded the Souvenir Album over a period of several years released in a tiny pressing in 1976 on the Yantis Record label.

Recently the German Net Label www.psychedelic-music.com  re-releasing the album, which displays a  touch of West Coast music and lots of Mothers of Invention influences. With a similar sound to The Spoils Of War and a complexity along the lines of Time and Think Dog, with Frank Zappa style wah-wah guitar, vocals, piano, effects, some horns, and a well-balanced mixture of heavy psych guitar tracks and twisted underground folk tunes, the band is gaining more fans than it had when it was active.  

Three of the band members went  on to form The Grufs. One went on to play in Blood Paradise, which is the best evidence yet for the reality of Devolution™   


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strange">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.