It all began when, “Septic Miracle” – an Azorean band, was formed back in 15th of March 2002 by João, Filipe, Eliezer and Milton. As timed passed, they acquired a feminine voice, which didn’t last longer in the band. Months later, Eliezer had to quit the band for personal reasons, leaving Filipe on vocals and guitars. In August 2004, they recorded their first Demo CD intituled: “The Beginning”. After some months later, they decided to step forward and acquired a new guitarist – Cristóvão “D.Cross” Ferreira, another feminine voice – Marilia and added keybords in the band – Rui. For a while everything was working well. They performed on the “MindXpanding Fest” in 2005, opening for the acclaimed Azorean band “Morbid Death” and went on recording in studio their last song entitled “Lunar Eclipse”. At this time the band was in a gothic – Metal genre. In May of this same year, after the great performance in the Azorean metal festival – “Roque Fest”, João Andrade, came to substitute Cris on the guitars, for Cris was unable to prosecute with the band.
It was on April of 2006 that the band changed completely after the exit of Marília, Andrade and Rui. The three founding members were developing a new project, heavier than before, so they contacted Cris and mentioned of this heavier genre they were developing, but this time to try something different and changing the line-up sending Cris for vocals. Cris (vocals on Slith and Eon Zero) agreed to try this new sound. After the experimental sessions the result was very pleasant and they acquired another Guitarist – “Piriquito”. Again by the miss fortune of unavailability, Piriquito had to go and Ruben Ferreira (Sacred Tears, Eon Zero) took his place, completing the actual line-up.
Due to all this extreme changes in the history of the band, everyone agreed to change the band name for something more appropriate with the project and the heavier sound. At that time, Cris had a project – Strapping Lucy – along with Ruben. Since this project was currently on hold and still fresh, Cris, as the author of the Strapping Lucy title decided, along with all band members, to use this name as the new band title, leaving Septic Miracle behind with all the old songs. Strapping Lucy are now on a regular composing period, recording at Spell Productions Studio … <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strapping+Lucy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.