There are more bands using this name, see below for clarification. Please note that Strange Land is NOT a Christian/White metal band. These tags are incorrectly applied to this band.

“Strange Land are a three piece who certainly like to make a lot of noise with their cerebral progressive rock/metal ... well, I said noise? Yes, but I meant it in a good way, as the Wisconsin-based band pays a lot of attention also to melody, not only to the complexity of guitar riffs.” - Igor Italiani, progressiveworld.net

As with many original bands the sound of Strange Land is difficult to describe. In the most generic sense the band falls into the progressive rock/metal category, along with such bands as Fates Warning, Queensryche, Savatage, Rush, Zero Hour, Pain of Salvation, and Galactic Cowboys. Strange Land, however, prefers not to wear its influences on its sleeve. Rather, the members blend all of their past musical experiences and outside musical influences into one unique musical vision. Each member of Strange Land takes an equal part in the writing and arranging of its music, and the project continues to evolve through changes in membership, making Strange Land as much a living idea as it is a band.

Strange Land was established in November of 1998 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Within the first six months of its existence, the band had written and arranged eleven original songs. Gabor Kleinbloesem of Strutter Magazine said of the Foundation demo: "Some more of these catchy and progressive tunes and this Strange Land may be counted as one of the latest sensations from the USA." The band self-released its first full-length album Anomaly, which included 12 tracks and almost 70 minutes of material. The album was recorded in the fall of 2001. In 2002 the band put the final touches on a 4 song demo of brand new material which was well received by fans at the 2002 Prog Power USA festival. The band finished its second full-length album entitled Blaming Season in late 2004, which has been well received by fans and critics alike since its release. Catharsis was released in the summer of 2009. This is an indie release but has sold well through word of mouth and to the Strange Land faithful. Besides the United States, Strange Land music has been enjoyed by fans in Canada, England, France, Spain, Germany, Japan, Brazil and other countries around the world. Strange Land receives regular airplay on stations such as Progulus Radio, WMSE, and to their delight, received airplay on Iron Maiden front man Bruce Dickinson's internet radio show.

Strange Land has opened for national acts like King's X, Tiles, Discipline, Gary Hoey, former Marillion front man Fish, Three, shredder Joe Stump, fusion supergroup McGill/Manring/Stevens, and Event. The band was a finalist in the 2005 Emergenza festival, among the top 14 acts out of a field of 200+ bands drawn from Milwaukee to perform in that year's international competition. Strange Land regularly played progressive music festivals and clubs in the Milwaukee area, as well as Detroit and Chicago from 1998-2010.

In the summer of 2010, member Sean Gill decided a change of pace was needed and moved to Denver, Colorado. The band made plans to continue working long distance. In late 2010 Strange Land founding member Chad Novell left the band to pursue other interests. Brad and Sean decided to work as a studio duo. Free of the constraints of what could be reproduced live, the now-duo embraced the possibilities of pushing the limits of their musicality. They began releasing singles in late 2012, leading up to a new album, Δ-v in 2014.

Instrumentation
Sean T. Gill - Guitar/Bass/Vocals/Keys and Programming
Brad Klotz - Drums/Vocals/Winds and Brasses

Primary Discography
Anomaly (2001)
Blaming Season (2005)
Catharsis (2009)
∆-v (2014) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strange+Land">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.