The band started under the monicker Trilogy Suite during the year 1992. At that time the band worked on a repertoire of their own tracks with a music style ranging from Neoclassical Metal to melodic Hard Rock.

In 1994, after the band won the prestigious Italian music award, “Ritmi Globali”, they had the opportunity to go into the studio to record their first demo entitled “When The Body Dies, The Soul Lives”. This gave Trilogy Suite good exposure, especially in the specialized metal press. Unfortunately, soon after the entire rhythm section left the band, in order to pursue other interests.

Founding members Nicola Balliana (guitars), Luca De Lazzaro (keyboards) and Federico De Vescovi (vocals) decided then to go on under a different name and music style as they wanted to accomplish a sound with no limitations and compromises whatsoever. New members Cris Zanvettor and Roberto De Cesero completed the line-up on bass and drums respectively.

During February 1997 Stramonio was finally born and after one year of writing and live performances, the band recorded the demo cd “Awake The Jester” which immediately raised great attention and interest in the Italian specialized press. This demo gained the band the possibility to record - during the year 2000 - their debut cd entitled “Seasons Of Imagination” which got fantastic reviews both in Italy and abroad.

In the meanwhile the band played several shows in Italy (more than 50 in less than one year) and Stramonio acquired an excellent reputation for their extremely tight live shows and performances. After the recording of a new demo entitled “Letters From Home”, Stramonio raised the interest of Frontiers Records, which signed them to a worldwide multi album deal. “Our music ranges from Prog-Metal to Neoclassic Metal” says Nicola Balliana, ”drawing inspiration from daily life and our soul in relation to the reality in which we live in”.

The result is a magnificent progressive metal album which blends rich and diverse influences into one recognizable and strong sound which constitutes the typical STRAMONIO trademark!

In order to promote their Mother Invention album, Stramonio played manifold important italian festivals and supported as domestic opening act re-known international greats like:; Paul Di’ Anno (ex Iron Maiden), Dare (ex Thin Lizzy), Uriah Heep, Saxon…

In October 2004 a new album to be entitled "Time Will Tell" will be released under Ivory Gates Records and distributed worldwide by Frontiers Records.

Live tour dates will follow in October 2004 to back up the album release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stramonio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.