There is more than one artist by the name of Strauss:

1)  A stoner rock, heavy metal, sludge band from London, UK.

BIO: Mother of all the multicultural cities, London is the melting pot where five lads, their respective nationalities and single musical influences happened to collide and form Strauss. A project inspired and driven by the adverse powers of modern western society, this is also the repressed need to speak out for those wishing to break away from a far too rationalized routine.

Groovy, fierce yet soul-rocking, Strauss’s sound is the musical produce of a desperate attempt to drag out what is left of their heavily besmirched creativity. A mold of old-school metal, stoner and sludge, this is the tuneful achievement of five inspirationally distinct musicians with no obligations but a mutual tendency to overcome sonic clichés and deliver awesomely exiting live performances.

Sure they know how to have and bring fun. Vocals and riffs are just as heavy as the aggressive drums bashing throughout each bloody song. What you hear is what you get – a blast of musical adrenaline, power and coordination. 

Facebook
Bandcamp

Members: 
Stef - voice
Charles - guitar
Nano - guitar
Bill - bass
Doc - drums


2) Strauss (Tatsuki Hashimoto) is a electronic indie musician from Japan.

3) Strauss may refer to any of at least five classical composers:

1. Johann Strauss II (October 25, 1825 – June 3, 1899), Austrian composer, the son of Johann Strauss I (who was actually against his son's career as a musician) and also known as "the Waltz King".  He revolutionized the waltz, elevating it from a lowly peasant dance to entertainment fit for the imperial Habsburg court. Most famous works include "The Blue Danube", "Wein, Weib und Gesang", "Tales from the Vienna Woods", "Tritsch-Tratsch-Polka", the "Kaiser-Walzer", and the operetta "Die Fledermaus".

2. Richard Strauss (June 11, 1864 – September 8, 1949), German composer of the late romantic era, no relation to the Austrian Strausses, and best known for the composition "Also Sprach Zarathustra".  Although not as well known as Johann Strauss II in popular culture, he is considered the greater composer by many serious students of classical music.

3. Johann Strauss I (March 14, 1804 – September 25, 1849), father of Johann Strauss II and Josef Strauss.  His most famous piece is probably the Radetzky March (named after Joseph Radetzky von Radetz) whereas his most famous waltz is probably the Lorelei Rhine Klänge op. 154.

4. Josef Strauss (August 20, 1827 - July 22, 1870), son and brother respectively of Johann Strauss I and II.

5. Eduard Strauss (15 March 1835 – 28 December 1916) was an Austrian composer who, together with brothers Johann Strauss II and Josef Strauss formed the Strauss musical dynasty. The family dominated the Viennese light music world for decades, creating many waltzes and polkas for Austrian emperors and their courtiers. He was affectionately known in his family as ‘Edi’.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strauss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.