Straight Land was founded in January 2001 in Bobruisk (Belarus) by former-guitarists Sergey Glebov and Paul Busel. After a one-year co-creation group joined by vocalist Andrew Rusin and bassist Anton Grigoryev. 

As a result, in the summer of 2002 was recorded the first album, "Negative Feelings", which received positive reviews in the press and issued a record label Music Violence Productions.

Later musicians present debut album on the radio station "Mir" in the Vlad Buben "Lost World" radio show and the instrumental track "Winter" was selected for publication in the collection of Belarusian heavy metal music "HARD life HEAVY music II", released in 2003 by BMA Group .

Between 2002 and 2003, the group maintains an active concert schedule, while continuing, meanwhile, is working on material for a future release. The next creature called "Santamuerte" was published in summer 2003. 

Bold musical experimentation group members did not go unnoticed. Although the review of the Canadian Space Junkies Magazine seemed strange even to the participants of SL, it did not prevent the label to produce and distribute small circulation records in Canada.

The year 2004 marked a turning point in the life of the group. Paul and Anton leave from band for personal reasons and Straight land start searching for guitarist and bassist. 
The new musicians have come from the Faithless Mind band, which SL has long-standing friendly relations. Alexander Bezuschenok - guitar and Maxim Kostenko - bass guitar. 

Fresh breath, ideas and energy filled work of SL. At rehearsals and in the home studio of new songs were written, developed a new concept performance, appeared clear voice of Alex, adding to the melody of the new material. 

In 2005, the studio Warm Place, the new composition was recorded single "AntiNoise", made in the genre of melodic metal and opens new perspectives for the group.
In 2005, SL participated in many concerts in Belarus, has received positive feedback from fans and press, while continuing to record new songs in the studio.

In November 2005 band issued album, "Refractory", who immediately liked both the fans and the press.

In 2006 SL actively participated in concerts and in the Belarussian mini-tour and in the international open-air Metal Crowd, productively working on new tracks. 

In 2007, the Warm Place studio album was recorded "Degree of isolation," which the group has changed not only the concept of performance in the direction of metalcore, but moved to the russian lyrics. A kind of musical experiment expanded the geography of concerts and has received the approval of the fans. 

In December 2007, SL supported on a tour of Italians "Brandon Ashley and Silverbugs" in Chisinau (Moldova). 

In January 2008, guitarist Alexander Bezuschenok left the band for personal reasons, and in SL start working musicians. 

Nevertheless, the ranks of the group comes drummer Dmitry Kirsanov and STRAIGHT LAND sounds powerful and professional, also comes a session guitarist Pavel Andreyev, assisting the group with live performances in the city of Smolensk in the festival "Phantoms" and the city of St. Petersburg on the Blood Fest . 

In April 2009, the group begins to cooperate with guitarist Dmitry Mikulich (Aillion, Peter Elfimov) begins work on new material for the new album. 

In August 2009, the group works with the Brazilian music labels ZDR Records. The result of becoming part of the group in the international music compilation "ZDR Burning Metal", mark the launch of the eponymous CD with the participation of 14 teams from around the world. 

In April 2010, the band performs at the national festival and the project "Music Sparring," where played new songs.
Winning the semi-finals of the competition, the group takes a place in the finals and the winner in the category "Death metal".

In November 2010 Straight Land began to record EP, consisting of 4 new tracks and track "Testosterone", not lost their relevance since the release of the album Refractory. 

In this moment the band is working on a design release EP, which was called "Road to Vegas". 
Release the disc is scheduled for March 1, 2011. 

In January 2011, the group noted a decade. During this period the group had written and published full-length albums: 

Negative feelings' in 2002 (Music Violence Productions) 
Santamuerte 'in 2003 (Lost World Productions) 
Refractory '2005 (Dinamo prods) 
Degree of isolation '2007 

Recorded single: 

Antinoise '2005 (Dinamo prods) 

Played more than 50 concerts, 15 of them outside the Republic of Belarus. 

Straight Land: 

Andrew A. Rusin - voice; 
Sergey A. Glebov - guitar; 
Dmitry S. Mikulich - guitar; 
Maxim E. Kostenko - bass; 
Dmitry A. Kirsanov - drums; 

The latest news from the life of the group are always available on the official site 
www.straightland.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Straight+Land">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.