Streetlife is a name used by several different artists.

(1) A dance music side project of Wally Van Middendorp and Wim Dekker of the Minny Pops.  They released two 12" singles on Factory Records, "Act On Instinct" in 1983 and "No More Silence" in 1985.

(2) Streetlife (Born Patrick Charles), also known as Street Life, is an African American hip-hop artist who is close associate of the Wu-Tang Clan, particularly with Method Man (whose Method Man Entertainment label has signed him) and is the closest Wu-affiliate to being an 11th Clan member, appearing on the last four group albums.

He was born in the Bronx then moved to Houston, Texas, but later moved to Staten Island where he grew up.

He made his debut with an appearance on Mr. Sandman from Meth's first album Tical, and was originally intended to appear on Ghostface Killah's Ironman on the track Box In Hand but the track was pulled from the album at the last minute (the track replacing it subsequently becoming known as "Box In Hand", it being too late to change the album packaging). The original version became known as "Box In Hand (Remix)."

Street went on to make two appearances on the Clan's second album Wu-Tang Forever and numerous appearances on Method Man's second album Tical 2000: Judgement Day in 1997 and 1998 respectively, after which he continued to make appearances on Clan albums and on the members' various solo projects. 

His own debut album was originally intended to be released in the busy 1998–1999 period but, as was soon to become the norm for Wu-Tang releases, it was repeatedly delayed, eventually seeing release titled Street Education in 2005. Though Method Man only made three short appearances on the album, he was billed as the executive producer.

(3) Streetlife is a group of young musicians and artists whose musical backgrounds are as diverse as their own personalities. 'KEEP ON MOVIN', STREETLIFE's debut album, showcases 14 full length newly recorded club hits. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Streetlife">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.