Streamer is a pseudonym of Gary Shepherd (aka DJ Alec Smart), from Amsterdam, The Netherlands - When he isn't travelling around spinning funking quirky tracks for discerning dancefloors, or weaving filmic soundtracks for cutting-edge theatre and dance performances.

Streamer is in fact the studio project lovechild of Shepherd. After a successful string of Streamer 12" single releases:

"Blown-Up" (dust 2 dust records UK.) 
"Feeling Good" remixes (Under One Sun, UK) 
"Sound" (Quaint Records) 
"Blissed" e.p (KidNap records, NL) 
 
Streamers first full length CD Blissed was released on KidNap records, Amsterdam in September 2001.

Blissed is music for funky picnics. For gentle euphoria. For raised eyebrows and wry smiles.
This 72 minute 16 track CD takes the listener through a full range of uplifted moods and leaves them feeling good. Enchanted, sometimes twisted, but always playful. It can contain elements of funking latin bigbeats, big band horns, blown up flutes, chilled out gambian harps, sequencers and steel guitars. Sometimes all in one song.
Blissed also features the vocal talents of live art group Private Thoughts in Public Places. The blissful beats and enchanted musical explorations provide an exellent basis for the conceptual wordscapes and thirty second sitcoms of P.T.P.P.

A perfect combination of good music, irony, style and theatrics.

The Blissed cd (now SOLD OUT) has also been very well received in the international licensing world, with tracks taken for such compilations as "2 many DJS" (Soulwax records, B), "DubPlates From The Lamp" (Pork records, UK), "God Bless The chilled" mixed by MixmasterMorris (Return to the Source, UK), and the half a million selling "Hotel Costes 5" mixed by Stephane Pompougnac (Pscent records, F).

Licences in production include: 

New Testament of Funk 5 (Unique Records, D) 
Nu Soul (Zomba, D) 
Avern affairs (Zomba, D) 
Elite Attitude (Pscent, F) 

March 2003 the long awaited new Streamer 12" EP "Call of the wild" was released. It features the tracks "Call of the wild", "Under a spell" and "Head over Heels". This new chapter allows Streamer to use the influence of his alter ego DJ Alec Smart. Those many hours spent spinning party music to audiences in Holland, Germany and Italy have their effect.
The new Streamer Sound, although just as playful and varied, now takes on a party feel (think: electro, afro, bigfunk, discobreaks).

 Sites: SoundCloud <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Streamer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.