Starting from a school event while attending high school in 2007, as the beginning of the beginning of Strength Hatred themself. Idham, Adri, and Novendro have a desire to participate in school events, but with only three heads to make a band format it was a bit lacking, especially with the desire to bring the concept of material from some of the hardcore band like "Rykers". Adri started to give the signal to Irvan (school-mates) as well, as well as Irvan with no strings attached to complete the formation Winresa appointed to join.

Begin the task-sharing schemes, Idham (vocal), Adri (bass), Novendro (guitar), Irvan (guitar), and Winresa (drums). Yeahs!, this might be a nice start to the age of Strength Hatred is considered to be very very young with the enthusiastic audience at a school was like "Bingo!", which ended up happening as a "Sign" to "OK!" forward to the next step with a pattern of serious.

Around the year 2007, Strength Hatred already started packing and show off what has been obtained from the collection-a collection of ideas in the social arrangements of songs as did the lyrics by filling events (gigs) surrounding the city of Bandung. Demo is actually beginning to warm up there in 2008, and contribute over for a few compilations.

Came in about the year 2010, God willing the other way. One colleague / friend / family; Winresa, died. It may be like a hard blow for Strength Hatred. Nearly half of Strength Hatred seems frustrated with the situation like that, plus the loss of the most crucial figure in the position of drums. With frustration and despair can’t seem to restore what should be happening, Idham and the others begin to rebuild what has become a goal in the beginning by pointing to several friends to fill the void.

At the end of 2010 finally came Torik with all the expectations as breadwinners for Strength Hatred. Year to year and in mid-2012, Strength Hatred began compiling Mini Album by including some of the earlier material.

And complete!. Strength Hatred, with basic hardcore will downstroke of sometimes fast or slow tempo, plus of vocal sounds like an angry man!.


www.reverbnation.com/strengthhatred07
www.purevolume.com/StrengthHatred
www.twitter.com/Strength_Hatred
www.myspace.com/strengthhatredhardcore <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strength+Hatred">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.