Stress Factor 9 is a crossover thrash metal band from Vancouver, formed in 2004. SF9's members include frontman Randy Rampage (founder of the hardcore band D.O.A.) and drummer Ray Hartmann (of thrash metal band Annihilator.) Other members include Duane Chaos (22nd Century, Ace Koden, Driven Force, Centerfold, Smash Alice), Kick and Frank Fright.

The Past :
Randy Rampage was a founding member of world-known original punk legends D.O.A. with drummer Chuck Biscuits (later to Danzig). At the end of the 80's, Rampage (vocals) and drummer Ray Hartmann recorded the classic gold-selling debut Annihilator album 'Alice in Hell'.       After some other projects in between, Ray and Randy reunited in Annihilator for 1999's 'Criteria for a Black Widow' album, with a well received tour of europe.

Stress Factor 9 :
Spring of 2005, Randy Rampage and Ray Hartmann joined with Kick (Vertical After) and wrote and recorded some demos with the help of Stuart Carruthers (Grip Inc), and Ash Blue (Strapping Young Lad) for new band STRESS FACTOR 9. The tunes ranged from thrash to punk to metal rock with old-school and new-school elements.

Summer of 2005, Frank Fright (Francis Frightful of Singapore's top thrash punk act Opposition Party) was added as guitarist and songwriter. The band continued writing enough songs for a full album, and performed several regional concerts including support for OverKill.

November 2005, Stress Factor 9 headed into Vancouver's world class Greenhouse Studios, with chief of production Shaun Thingvold (Fear Factory, Strapping Young Lad, Lamb of God, Bif Naked), and recorded the 12 song debut album 'BrainWarp MindSpin'. Lyrical contributions were made by John Bates, the author of Annihilator's classic hit Alice in Hell. Also making a guest appearance was Anthony Greenham

Summer 2006 Stress Factor 9 played shows in europe with Armored Saint, and north american shows, supporting the new CD, which is available on this website, on Amazon.com, and from Century Media. 2007 SF9 intends to tour Japan and europe then record more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stress+Factor+9">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.