Stribog (the god (grandfather) of winds in Slavic mythology) was formed in winter 2005/2006. by Mario ''Knez Svitogor'' Bosnir (synth/vocals), Vitorog (Melkor, vocals), Leshy (Melkor, bass) and Nikola ''Volos'' Mrksa (guitar) in Zagreb, Croatia.

Soon after, Vitorog was replaced by Vedran ''Pikuolis'' Kovacic, whereas Ivan Mrkoci - Mrva joined the band as a drummer. With this line up, the band enters studio and records their first demo
named "Za Vjecan Ponos i Cast!" ("For Eternal Pride and Honor!") in April 2006.

2006/2007

In the following months band sustained some line-up changes, and it all resulted in the joining of Darko ''Kovas'' Cosic (a.k.a. Beleth / Melkor, drums), Ana ''Ausrine'' Backonja (female vocals), Borna ''Void'' Zezelj (Iskariot, additional guitar) and Nikola ''Khorz'' Dusak (Iskariot, bass), and in January 2007. band records a new single ''Nyia - Religija Krvi'', as a preview of the upcoming material.

2007 - part I

Stribog have been suspicioned in connotation with the NS (National Socialism) and similar movements.
None of this suspicions are true! Because of this nonsense suspicions and rumors Stribog was forced to cancel  a big gig with Skyforger in a club Mocvara....

2007 - part II

In May, Stribog has officially split up but in July, Stribog reunioned again. There was again a lineup change- keyboardist Mario ''Knez Svitogor'' Bosnir was no longer a part of Stribog,due to personal and musical differences between him and the band.

September 2007 brought another changes to the band: Sergej Simpraga returns to Stribog and Nikola Dusak leaves the band. From the late December 2007 Vedran Kovacic is no longer a part of StriboG due to the personal dissidences.

Stribog also intorduced two new members: Robert Perica on keyboards and Ivo Turk ( also known from the band Slip ) on whistles.


1.5.2010. Stribog released their album "U Okovima Vječnosti" trough Murderous Production.

The release of our new album brought to us some line up changes... 
Ana Bačkonja, Robert Perica and Borna Žeželj are no longer members of Stribog.
Stribog found new members  to replace them.

Present Stribog members are Nikola Mrkša (guitar), Sergej Šimpraga (bass), Darko Ćosić (drums), Ivan Mrkoci (guitar), Tomislav Živković (vocals) and Dunja Zbiljski (flute).  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stribog">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.