Formed in 2001, STRIKKEN is heart charging entertainment!

STRIKKEN has taken the metal genre and carved a niche for themselves. With line up changes and trials, they have kept climbing to get to the summit.

The bands drive has taken them in a new direction that is clearly a good one. With the upcoming release of their new album, "Long Story Short", the band tells the story of the long hard fought battle to make this album happen. Relentless determination pushes them to never quit, never stop.

STRIKKEN has a strong, aggressive stage presence with high-energy performances of original music that grabs the fans like a vise. The intensity of the band transmits to the audience. The live show is worth catching!

STRIKKEN has developed their own style with the influences of several great bands, shaken not stirred. Hard metal with a new rock edge - with jalapenos! They strive to be inventive, always playing their asses off for their hard core fans.

STRIKKEN has played over 350 shows including shows touring throughout the mid-west. The band has opened for major recording artists such as Drowning Pool (video - http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kt4VeMi1v5M ), Bobaflex, Mushroom Head, Static X and more.

Shortly after touring their first album, in 2002, STRIKKEN parted ways with original vocalist Scott Jett due to some creative differences and in order to pursue a new sound inspired by the influence of bands like Killswitch Engage, All That Remains, Soilwork, and Dream Theater. During their search for a new vocalist the band stayed close to home, playing locally while they wrote new material and searched for THE vocalist that would help them achieve the sound they where seeking. In 2009, the band found their man, vocalist Ryan Henry, and began working on their Sophomore album. "Long Story Short" is the product of all the hard work. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strikken">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.