As any cool kid of the 90′s, Strip Steve grew up with Offspring, the passion more or less regular of skateboard, and the art of turntablism. Few scratches and a failure in a rap band after, he remembered how much Armand van Helden, Cassius & Daft Punk’s videos he used to watch before “Yo MTV rap” started, torn his sentimental life, and more his whole existence.He started mixing at 14 with his first turntables, and slowly made parties with his friends in his hometown (Bordeaux) that mixed every kind of music they found exciting, with always one purpose: that the people had fun very simply. 2007, Steve is now 20 and listen for most to House & Techno. Inspired by the masters Dj Sneak & Paul Johnson, as much as by listening to the Crydamoure compilations, his goal is to bring back House where it should never left: the dancefloor.And he knows how to do: his dj sets make crashing Chicago House classics (Robert Armani, Dj Pierre, Marshall Jefferson, Armando…), nowadays Techno Anthems (Boys Noize, the french record labels Institubes & Ed Banger…), early 90′s Rave Ufos (this kid has fascination for for Prodigy & Bizarre Inc.) or the best 12″ electronic music has ever made (Masters at Work, Romanthony, Daft Punk, LFO, Joey Beltram…). 2008, At the beginning of the year Strip Steve released his first EP on Boysnoize Records. Yet another proof by Labelboss Alex Ridha that he supports young & fresh talents. Bookings all over Europe and his first Austrlia Tour has been the result of it.Many artists got interested to his own special sound and Remixes for Shadow Dancer (BNR), Van She (Modular) and Outlander (R&S) followed.Another huge milestone in his life took place on the 2nd half of the year. Falling in love with the german capital Steve moved from his mum’s house in Bordeaux to Berlin to life as a free man and start concentrating on his music.During tea time and a short session with Boys Noize, Steve participates in the making of a track which will become a huge single (named Jeffer) of the furthcoming Album calle”d Power”. 2009, In this year finally the whole world could get inspired by the Strip Steve sound. Every weekend another show. Tokyo, Sydney, Auckland, Support Act for the “Boys Noize Power Tour” and whole Europe were stops by the New Berliner.During his Tour he still found time to work on banging remixes for artists such as The Faint (BNR), Adam Sparkle & Dave P (Satellite of Love), Das Glow (Institubes) and his 9 minute acid banger for G.L.O.V.E.S. (Bang Gang).Although his neighbours freaked out, end 2009 Steve could finish his new EP called Delta Disco. With great feedback of his fans and big support by artists like 2many DJs, Busy P, Erol Alkan, Mylo, Dj Feadz, Boris Dlugosh, Andy & Jaymo (BBC One), Dexpistols, Surkin and Bobmo.

In 2010, Strip Steve saw some dreams come true by releasing the remixes version of “Delta Disco”.It featured remixes by his masters Ian Pooley & Sedat the Turkish Avenger (Crydamoure) along with his mates Das Glow (Institubes) & Lorenz Rhode, and newcomers like Clap Mike, Rynecologist & Crystal.

In 2011 he releases a 2 track EP on BNR digital sublabel, BNR Trax with his french fellow Das Glow.The response on Calcium is very strong, getting 3rd of the Beatport Techno chart, and being played by the likes of Carl Craig, Errorsmith, Laurent Garnier, and many others…
He’s now working on a new solo EP, a follow up to this collaboration with Das Glow, and an album in the horizon!  With a very strong Techno culture and a very obvious talent, Steve didn’t wait long before he distinguished himself from the Myspace crowd, and proved that he’s surely here to stay. His extatic and pumpin productions put the lightspots of the electronic music lovers on him at lightspeed. HOLLA BACK, YOUNG’N ! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strip+Steve">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.