Strings of Ares was established in early 2007 in the greater area of Toronto, Canada and is comprised of four individuals who had been keen on melting their art together for almost half a decade.

The collaboration was initially sparked by veteran guitarist Jeff Longo (whom you may know of from Canadian dark metal aces “Blood of Christ”) when he summoned together the skills of 3 very talented musicians whom had already began making a name for themselves… Hank Bielanski, an already seasoned performer with the likes of Magus & Apparatus; from Sudbury on bass guitar & vocals… Oshawa native Jonathan Krem on lead guitar; also a master of a universe and outlandish space riffs… and Trevor Brook-Allred on the drum throne, from Pickering; whom had already began to make a name for himself by touring for a few years alongside Jeff in Blood of Christ.

From teaching music, writing, recording and performing and a general love and hunger for something real and new; various talents and experience from these four individuals have come together to create some of the most unique, intricate and extreme heavy metal to come out of Canada in a long time.

Strings of Ares conceptually (or lyrically) is a force that was the brain child of Hank and Jeff (given their namesake by London scholar Mark Dolson), focusing primarily on ancient Rome and ancient Greece – war themes, mythology and the cosmos… even beyond.

After a year of coming together and creating their works (along with a handful of select performances around Ontario), Strings of Ares are now gearing up to record their first release in early 2009. The EP, “Temple to Mars”; will feature five numbers that is sure to turn some heads both with industry professionals and heavy metal fanatics alike… Featuring a sound that is quite fresh and ground breaking in an era that something new is definitely tough to come by – a sound that is all their own, indescribable perhaps it can only be called the Strings of Ares. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strings+Of+Ares">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.