Stridsvagn was formed by Christoffer Nordfeldt ( Dräparen, Guitar ) and Fredrik Kroon ( Pizzaman, Drums ) at Sweden rock 05. They started talking ( seriously drunk ), about putting together a trash metal band. Stoffe had a friend, Andreas Ibegård ( Driverlicense-boy, Ex-Throath ) who also was interested in starting a band. Together with an internet recruited friend, Richard Söderström ( Disappear-boy, Ex-bass ) they meet up at Andreas apartment a few months later, and Stridsvagn was born. After playing a few moths with the band Richard suddenly decided to leave the band for his more girly one ( Enfaced ). He..s replacement was made by Johan Lethonen ( Shakke, Bass ) We had from the beginning talked about having a second guitarist, so after jamming with us a few times our friend James Edlund ( Wolverine, guitar, Ex-Saw you drown ) joined the dark side. Things went well and we played for a while. We had some ideas for adding a second vocalist too at that time, so our friend Niklas Haggö ( Gaylord, Troath ) joined and screamed for us a few times. We could clearly hear that he..s troath skills were much better then Andreas, and we realized that their vocals really didn..t match each other in the band from the beginning. So a week before we went recording our first demo, we decided within the band that Andreas had too leave the band. Well the ( current line-up ) was complete and the trash/death quintet went too Stockholm started recording the first demo ..A touch of death.. at Studios 301 in Solna. Faaaaar to much liquir was involved in the recording The results came out OK anyway and we had a whole lot of fun yeah!! For the moment are we rehearsing on some new material, that we hopefully will start to record soon. These songs will twist your f** mind when they be released. Expect a new melodic faster,harder and mindf*** sound from Stridsvagn in the future <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Stridsvagn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.