There is more than one artist with this name:

1)STRIKEMASTER  is formed in mexico in 2005 by 2 friends who met early before and started planning a raw thrash metal band, Col.Kmu and Commander Chavez started the project and invited a musician from a well known band in Mexico “Polo” from Raped God to be the bass player, but because of some personal issues he couldn’t go on so Diego joined the band as full time bass player after Thaurval’s split up and the band recorded the first demo limited to less than 15 copies called “murder in the kitchen”…… 
this demo had only two songs: Thrashing the blind school” and “ritual killings”. 

The band gave the first live show on November 2005 with a result of serious violence, a fight, and an unceasing mosh pit for their only 4 or 5 songs by that time. Later on 2006 the band recorded the first official demo called “Rushed death”, more than 500 copies distributed in every metal bar, gig, concert, street the guy could spread their mayhem. With this demo they get their first Mini Tour outside Mexico playing 4 shows aroud Puerto Rico. 

Gigs kept coming up and finally an independent, cult, only true and no bullshit record company offered a deal for their first full length album “Up for the massacre” with 10 songs and 45 minutes of full speed thrash metal the album got an awesome response world wide, later on in November, Strike master got back to Puerto Rico to play the Boricua Metal Fest sharing stage with heavy metal legends as Omen, Twisted Tower Dire, etc. and finalizing the year with a thrash metal old school fest in benefit for SPIKE CASSIDY (D.R.I.) in Rialto California, U.S. sharing stage with the thrash metal new bloods of this time like: Witchaven, Merciless Death, Fueled by fire, Malicious assault and Infantry, what can we say about it…… THE FUCKING BAY AREA QUALITY!!!!!!!!! 

The band kept making its way around Mexico playing with proudly legendary Mexican bands like Luzbel, Transmetal, Garrobos, and Hacavitz among others. The band participated in the traditional “Thrasho de Mayo” in Hollywood California with the Californian thrash bands previously mentioned and that way opening their opportunity to reach a higher level and a stronger name. 

On August 2007 Strike master changes Bass player due to personal diferencies, Captain Ricardo joins the band, with new line up and new material to be recorded on a limited edition EP. StrikeMaster also Headlines their cult thrash metal presentation in Chicago, Illinois to keep the international activity on. 

The Band releases their EP “ Inflexible Steel” limited to 500 copies, featuring Kenny Powel from Omen on a face melting guitar solo and 3 bonus live tracks, presenting their new material in their metal baptize with fire as the only supporting band for POSSESSED in Mexico tour 2008, 2 weeks later disembarking their metal force over Europe to be the first and only Mexican Band to play MainStage on the cult metal festival Keep It True X in Germany, and having a couple of shows around the continent in well known metal venues like the Access bar in Berlin and other gigs in Belgium. 

Strike master has appeared in several compilations like “Outbreak of evil” under Nuclear War Now Records, Heavy magazine Germany, Thrash Metal Warriors under Black Devil Records in an American version and an European version as well.

2) Strikemaster is a heavy metal band from New Zealand. They released one album named Good 'n' Ready in 1984 and an EP called Misguided Desires in 1986. They still play live a few times each year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strikemaster">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.