STROMMOUSSHELD was founded in June 1999. Since the very start they have drawn critics' attention with the intriguing combination of metal music and electronics (on stage using standard instruments, computers and live visuals).

After several demo tapes and lots of gigs played in Poland and abroad they signed a deal with Italian label Avantgarde Music in 2002. In April 2003 their debut album Behind the Curtain was released. The reviews were enthusiastic and the album was acclaimed Album of the Month in a couple of European music magazines. The band itself was voted Newcomer of the Year in Metal Hammer Readers' Poll. To promote the album Strommoussheld appeared at several prestigious festivals (e.g. Metalmania 2003, Brutal Assault 2003 in Czech Republic, they played as one of headliners at Italian Nihil Festival) and at Polish tour Dark Stars 2003. In 2004 their music was used in the Silesian Theatre's adaptation of cult novel Trainspotting.

In October 2004 the band released the EP Halfdecadance (Metal Mind Records) and took a part in Samael's Reign of Light Tour 2004.

In Spring 2005 the band did their first headlining native tour Generation Avantgarde and two months later appeared at the Poland's Castle Party Open Air - the biggest dark independent festival in the Middle & Eastern Europe - playing together with their special quest CH District - Poland's best idm/ambient/industrial act.

In February 2009 StrommoussHeld took a part in HELLHOUNDS FEST TOUR with Tiamat and The 69 Eyes...

The band has played concerts with such bands as:
Samael, Saxon, Tiamat, Vader, The Exploited, Anathema, Opeth, Enslaved, Marduk, Immolation, Amon Amarth, Malevolent Creation, God Dethroned, Impaled Nazarene, Exhumed, Cephalic Carnage, Ephel Duath, Kataklysm, Hollenthon, Pungent Stench, The 69 Eyes, Flowing Tears and many more...

Line up:
Maels Strommö - vocals, guitars, programming
Martin el.Tha - bass guitars
Kvass aka Comankh - live visuals, vocals
+ quests

Website: http://www.strommoussheld.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strommoussheld">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.