1)  Flute-y and carefree jazzy prog wonderment from one of the earliest notables out of the French underground. Structure and its mastermind Bernard Wystraete anticipate a sound here that was more prevalent a few years later in France, with a distinct akin to the work of fellow scene movers Jean Cohen-Solal and Triode. You'll also find some fab exploitation psych/prog bits in the mode of Braen's Machine and Wolfgang Dauner's Rischkas' Soul, airy Brazilian Bossa overtones, and some bits (particularly on the violin and vocal-driven "Episodes") that presciently propose a sound later taken to the bank in the mid 70's by Polish fusion god Michel Urbaniak, right down to the Urszula Dudziak-like bits of effected scatting.

2)   Band from San Antonio, Texas. Currently unsigned. struc-ture the arrangement or interrelation of all the parts of a whole musical entity --- Structure is a hard-hitting rock band with an uncanny melodic edge. The combination of intense guitar riffs, powerful drumming and smooth vocals comprise Structures dynamic sound. The music is just as impassioned as the bands live show. Structures love for performing started at a very young age. The bands hunger for the stage has brought them to where they are today. Structures stellar live show is full of energy and flair and when its over, their heart and soul is left on the stage leaving a trail of undeniable emotions. Structures ultra-powerful self titled album encompasses all of the elements that define the band. The release of the album is only the beginning of an all out regional promotional effort ranging from touring to independent radio promotion. Look for the band in a city near you. 

3) 90's New Jersey hardcore band. Not a lot of information on this band, just that they released one s/t 7" in 1992 on Noode Records. Comparable to Turning Point.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Structure">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.