In August of 2009, Strychnia, a five-piece Death/Thrash metal band, was formed in Dayton, New Jersey. Strychnia’s broad range of influences have allowed them to dominate the local metal scene with aggressive thrash and crushing death metal grinds. After releasing a few demos, the band finally entered the studio in May 2010 and began recording their debut album, “The Anatomy of Execution” with producer Bobby Torres of Fright Box Recordings. Due to financial problems the band never finished their album until May 2011. The band finally released the album on June 14th, 2011. Shortly after the album’s release, three of Strychnia’s members left the band. The band entered a hiatus and began planning a comeback. On July 31st, 2012, Strychnia announced their comeback with a newly reformed lineup. The band also announced they are working on a new EP which is scheduled to release in the Fall/Winter of 2012. Although the band has a full lineup planned for recording, they are still searching for a full-time Bassist and Drummer for live shows. Prior to their hiatus, the band had already earned a strong reputation and proved to be one of New Jersey's best Death/Thrash Metal bands on the scene. The band quotes, "It's not often that you will find new bands that can impact their audience and get them moving without giving in to the mainstream commercialized bullshit. We are one of the bands that strive to make that difference in the music scene. Our unique mixture of influences has given us a sound that has virtually separated us from your generic metal band of the new era". 

During their two years of annihilation, Strychnia shared the stage with many national acts and received interest from multiple independent record labels. Strychnia has played alongside bands such as: Exodus, Hate Eternal, Lazarus AD, Dirty Rotten Imbeciles (D.R.I.), Warbringer, Waking The Cadaver, Malevolent Creation, Destroyer 666, Revocation, Goatwhore, The Absence, Rumpelstiltskin Grinder, Rose Funeral, EkoTren, Ventana, & Mobile Deathcamp. The band has also played many of the top venues in New Jersey, as well as the Tri-State Area. Including: Starland Ballroom, The Trocadero, Hangar 84, Dingbatz, Crocodile Rock Cafe, Championship Bar & Grill, and more!

A few months after their album’s release, Strychnia announced that they would be making their entire album available for free download via their social media pages such as Facebook and ReverbNation, as well as Mediafire. The band quotes, “We really just want people to hear the hard work we put into this album. We spent 100+ hours in the studio recording, editing, and tweaking these songs and we are dying to hear everyone's opinion… We are dedicated musicians and nothing is more awesome than hearing how much you guys dig our tunes. Plus we're still a local band, we care mainly about exposure and everyone hearing our music. If we ever wanna break outta the local scene we can't rely on people spending money to hear our music.” In addition to their debut album’s release, Strychnia had a “Strychnified Zombie” T-shirt designed by Cruise of Arterial Designs. At the time, Cruise had designed shirts for bands such as: Suicide Silence, Born of Osiris, Rose Funeral, Veil of Maya, and Chelsea Grin. The “Strychnified Zombie” shirt is no longer available for purchase, but the band plans on working with a new artist to design a new shirt inspired by artwork related to their upcoming EP.

The following excerpt was taken from an article/review written about the band, following one of their top performances at Starland Ballroom on January 16th, 2010:
-------------------------------------------------------
When a "Scream" band comes along and makes my head swing, it's a RARE occasion. However, other than the mighty "Cradle of Filth" never has a "screamer" made me want to slam my cranium against a wall in triumph and pure respect more than the band Strychnia!
This band nailed it. With a bass line that could bring a mountain down, guitars that could melt faces off, drums that could shatter a glacier, and a vocalist who hit every throat gurgling note with precision and tenacity in such a way that it would be worthy as a war ensemble.
I couldn't have been more impressed by this bands abilities. The fact that they were so young was what impressed me the most. I don't think any of them were over 20. It made an older metal maniac like me happy to know there are kids out there who still want to carry the torch of metal into the depths for years to come.
-------------------------------------------------------

https://www.facebook.com/Strychnia
http://www.reverbnation.com/strychnia
http://www.myspace.com/strychnia
http://www.purevolume.com/strychnia
http://www.twitter.com/strychnia
http://www.soundcloud.com/strychnia
http://www.youtube.com/user/xslaytheweakx
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Strychnia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.