There are multiple artists named Sturm und Drang: 1) A Finnish metal band. 2) A Dutch indie rock band. 3) An Italian darkwave band. 4) A German RAC band.

1) Sturm und Drang is a metal band founded in Finland in 2004 when André Linman and Henrik Kurkiala were on their way home from a Judas Priest concert. The name for the band was suggested by Henrik's father. Shortly afterwards Jesper Welroos and Calle Fahllund joined the band, and they had their first practice in Calle's basement. A few weeks later they performed in their first concert. Later they realized that they needed one more guitar player, and Alexander Ivars became their fifth member. The band got more gigs and played at Stafettkarnevalen 2004 in Vaasa, also making a cover of Dio's Rainbow In The Dark. In 2007, they already played as the headline on Stafettkarnevalen.
André, Jesper, Calle, Alexander and Henrik belong to the minority of Swedish-speaking Finns. When their first album was published in 2007, the boys were only 15-16 years old.
In 2005 they made the demo Rising Son which they sent to Helsinki Music Company. The boss for HMC, Asko Kallonen, who had not taken them seriously, changed opinion after hearing them play live with the Swedish garage rock band The Hellacopters. He gave the band their record deal, and shortly afterwards they started to record their first album, Learning To Rock. In 2007 they also got a new record company, GUN Records, which will release their debut album in the whole of Europe except for Scandinavia.
After the 30 May release of their album in Finland, Learning to Rock climbed to number three on the official chart of record sales in Finland.

2) Sturm und Drang is a Dutch indie rock band with Steef De Man on vocals, Fons Vanderweijden on  bass, guitarist Martin J. Otter, drummer Jos, and guitarist Bavo.

3) Sturm und Drang was a darkwave band founded in Varese, Italy in November 1983. They played live gigs from early 1984 to 1989. Members included Nicola Vitali (vocals), Marco Colombo (drums), Gigi Milani (bass guitar), Franz Della Casa (lead guitar) and Alberto Rossini (synthesizer).

4) Sturm und Drang is a RAC band from Germany. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sturm+und+Drang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.