Sublime Eyes were founded in 2007 by Tom, Remy, St책le (ex-guitarist) and Steffen (ex-vocalist) as a pure Scandinavian Death metal band.
Inspired by At The Gates, Dark Tranquility and Dimension Zero, the band set out in early 2008 to record a demo, which were only locally distributed, and to record labels of course. The band lost their guitarist St책le due to different interests, as St책le only saw the band as a hobby and not wanted to dedicate to much spare time to the band. 2008 Jan had joined the band as it's bassist, but quickly changed to guitar when St책le left, (which turned out to be a blessing in disguise!) The band the started looking for a new bassist, and had Tom's brother Roy quickly join for a couple of concerts, but couldn't join the band because of his young age, and seeing the band played mostly above 18 venues, this would become a problem.
In early 2009 Dan joined the band on bass, and the band were complete for the first time since it's founding. and almost immediatly the band went into studio in the spring of 2009 to record their first album Dawn Of The Defiant (self financed) Which took a long time to record due to double booking in studio, and wasn't released until 2010, and the band got some good reviews for the album, but sadly, the band didn't do any pr for the album so the album went mostly unnoticed to the public. 2011 the band and Steffen agreed to part ways due to personal differences.
And saw the joining of Ex-Knine vocalist Arvid, who was a major step-up considering his long career in live performance and his ability as a frontman for the band. 2012 saw the band release a new demo with the new lineup, and a change in sound and the genre shifting a little (for the better). Now we're complete and ready to defeat, all and any who stand in our way for total world domination... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sublime+Eyes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.