Their own bio:

Formed by Carmine (vocals), Alessio (bass) Ivano (drums) in 2001 and in a second time with Doddo (guitar) and Enzo (guitar), Subliminal Fear mostly seemed party to Death Metal in its melodic connotation, without forgetting speed and aggressive sound.

The band, finding concrete stability, made the first Demo in November 2004, recorded at the Nicola Lonigro’s Half Moon Studios (Bari). The Band played some gigs in local places with a good response from metalheads.

At the end of 2005, Ivano (drums) decides to leave friendly the band, the search of a new drummer begins. Besides some good reviews in the mags it also attains interest from the greek label Burning Star Records and they sign a deal for their debut album in the begining of 2006.
The band begins to work on the songs that finally will be album no.1

In February of 2006 Marco Albanese became new drummer, he has already played with Subliminal Fear as session in the past and Enzo (guitar) leaves the band for personal and music incompatibilities.
In September of 2006 Subliminal Fear played at Total Metal Festival in Noicattaro (BA), a great festival in south Italy with bands like Necrodeath, Rain, DGM and Highlord and a lot of good local bands.
Estremarte realized a Dvd from this event out in 2007, with all the bands that played in, with an inedit song from Subliminal Fear called “Stare” from their upcoming debut album.

They enter 16th Cellar Studios in Rome with producer Stefano Morabito (Hour of Penance, Eyeconoclast, Enemynside, Theater of the Vampires, Necrotorture) to record their debut album “Uncolored World Dying” between Febbrary and March in 2007. The Artwork has been realized by Davide Nadalin from Nerve Design (Nile, Extrema, Threshold, The Duskfall, Blinded Colony).

After a period with the band and for his good ability with his guitar, Alfredo Mameli becomes new guitar player.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Subliminal+Fear">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.