Submotion Orchestra is a live 7-piece project from Leeds, incorporating deep bass-driven grooves and dense textures in their progressive live dubstep sound.

Leaving crowds inspired and often open-mouthed in their wake, this is not live dubstep to be taken lightly. The members have all cut their teeth on live dub, funk, reggae, jazz and even grime bands previously, so are no strangers to complex rhythm or rootical bass. Having been formed in early 2009 as an experimental live project, the band have quickly established themselves as one of the most exciting up-and-coming acts this year.

Expect to hear blissful tones and weighty sub-bass, interwoven with tight rhythmic intensity from this incredibly talented outfit.


© Submotion 2010

(2) The seven-piece electronic/jazz ensemble Submotion Orchestra combined an eclectic mix of bass, soul, ambient electronica, jazz, and dub, which was complemented by the sultry vocals of singer Ruby Wood. The project began at the request of York Arts Council, when they asked founding members Tommy Evans (Gentleman's Dub Club) and Dom "Ruckspin" Howard (Author) to compose a classical/dub crossover piece to be performed at York Minster in 2009. After the success of that particular show, Evans and Howard returned to their hometown of Leeds, U.K., with a new musical vision and enough contacts to assemble the right musicians for the job. 

 Submotion Orchestra were revered for their energetic live shows, first on a local level at their weekly residency at Leeds bar Hukaz. They soon hit the U.K. festival trail, where their music and the feel-good atmosphere they promoted made them a firm festival favorite. By 2011 they had released their debut album, Finest Hour, via Ranking Records, gaining the support of BBC Radio 6 DJ Gilles Peterson, who would continue to endorse their music for many years to come. The second album, Fragments, was released only a year later. After its release, Ninja Tune offshoot label Counter Records approached the band about releasing future material, leading to third album Alium (2014) and fourth album Colour Theory (2016). ~ Liam Martin
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Submotion+Orchestra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.