There are eight known artists by the name of Submission.

1. Submission (American experimental music collective), formed in 2001

2. Submission (Connecticut hardcore band)

3. Submission (Namibian heavy metal band), formed in 2005.

4. Submission (aka Cevin Fisher), formed in 1997.

5. Submission (Scandinavian metal band), formed in 2003.

6. Submission podcast - cutting edge dnb from 2 of east london's finest young DJ's

7. Submission (Finnish post-punk band).

8. Submission (Indonesian punk band).

1. http://www.myspace.com/submissionmusic 

2. http://www.myspace.com/submissionct  

3. Current line-up:
Willie Grobler - vocals (Arcana XXII)
Stefan Steyn - guitars (Mjöllnir)
Sven Heussen - guitars (Arcana XXII)
Georg Stadtherr - bass
Stefan Nel - drums

Albums:
subMission (2006) - demo

4. In 1997 Cevin Fisher released a 12" vinyl EP entitled "Women Beat Their Men" on Velocity Records under the moniker Submission. It was very popular and several remixes were released.

5. Submission is a band that was formed in April 2003, by Christoffer Petersen (guitar) and Kasper Kirkegaard (guitar). After a few months of playing together they realized, that they wanted to take the music further than just playing for fun. Kasper knew some people from former bands, so he contacted Morten Løwe Sørensen (drums) and Steven Qvist (vocal). Both of them agreed to try out the ideas, that had been created, and soon submission was on a path that everybody in the band could relate to, and now the band was almost assembled. In April 2005 the band finally found a bass player that could live up to the standards in Submission. The name is Boris Tandrup (bass). 

After some time the band had written more than enough material, so they decided to record a demo. The 1st demo from Submission, (entitled: Submission), was recorded in late December 2004, but due to problems of various kinds, the demo wasn’t released before July 2004. After the release of the debut demo, it got very good reviews from various magazines and websites, and was getting good response from the audience too. Submission also received an award in the category ‘Best demo/self financed cd’, at the Dmea 2004. (Danish metal awards). 

In late 2004 Submission went back to the studio to record their 2nd demo/mcd (entitled: Pain Or Pleasure). The release of the mcd happened in the spring of 2005. This time Submission had polished their style even more, and the band now felt that they were in their real element. This was also the right to assume, cause after the release they were offered a deal from the French record label, Listenable Records. The award they received from the Dmea, showed out to be more than just a acknowledgement of their music. It landed them a gig at the famous Roskilde Festival 2005 (Denmark), as opening act, and also the opportunity to be on the compilation Dvd of the Roskilde Festival 2005, along with other upcoming international bands. 

Right now Submission just finished their debut album (entitled: Failure To Perfection) due on Listenable Records. It will hit the stores in spring 2006 and it is a combustion to your ears! Fast thrash/death metal blended with a melodic twist. The 28 of Feb the album hit the streets in eu and the band recieved some amazing reviews (6/7 Metal Hammer - Ger ) & (8.5 Rock Hard) etc. The album is also out in the most of Asia and America. 

6. subscribe if you're down with DnB

7. https://www.facebook.com/submissionfin, http://submissionfin.bandcamp.com/

8. Indonesian street punk band established 2016 in Parung Panjang, Bogor. The band was previously known as Sexsnoopy. Their debut was titled "Another Future" EP in 2017, released by Stay Punk Music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Submission">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.