There are multiple artists named Subrosa:

1) Subrosa was a doom metal group hailing from Salt Lake City, UT, United States, formed in 2005. Bandmembers  Rebecca Vernon (Guitar, vocals, The Keening), Sarah Pendleton (Electric violin, vocals, The Otolith/Asphodel Wine/Avarice), Kim Pack (Electric violin, vocals, The Otolith/Avarice/Teleprom), Levi Hanna ( Bass, The Otolith) and Andy Patterson ( Drums, The Otolith/Insect Ark/Døne) produced an eclectic mix of stoner / sludge metal with neoclassical undertones. To quote Sarah,"We are attempting to be the sonic interpreters of that which is intangible".
The band's first full-length album, Strega, emerged in 2008 on I Hate records. Lineup instability undulated up  to the following year's EP Swans Trapped in Ice, afterwhich the current lineup solidified and began conception.
The sophmore release No Help for the Mighty Ones  found release through leading indie metal label Profound Lore in early 2011, granting the group much-deserved praise and exposure. The band has played festivals and shows in Salt Lake City, and a couple short tours in the US and Europe, recently rounding out CrucialFest with Witch Mountain. Latest album to date More Constant Than The Gods was released September 17 2013. Subrosa announced their breakup on Facebook on 20 May 2019.
Official website: http://subrosa.cc

2) Subrosa was a rock band from Gainesville, FL, United States, founded by Travis Tooke and Jack Griego after the accident that involved the band For Squirrels, killing members Jack Vigliatura and Bill White and tour manager Tim Bender. Griego and Tooke suffered multiple injuries, but survived the crash.
A few months after the accident, Tooke and Griego regrouped with school friend Andy Lord on bass and Tooke taking over on vocals. In February 1996, the new lineup began by playing a few low-key shows centered around classic For Squirrels songs and a selection of covers under the pseudonym Revlover. Eventually, they resurrected the For Squirrels moniker and began writing and performing new material, favoring a heavier grunge sound.
By late 1996, the trio was playing under the name Subrosa. In the summer of 1997, they released their only record under this name, "Never Bet the Devil Your Head", on Sony Records, to decent reviews but poor sales. Second guitarist Mike Amish was later added, which was followed by a tour supporting popular alternative rock act Creed. Griego eventually parted ways with the group and was replaced in the band’s final years by Rusty Valentine. They disbanded in 2001.

3) Subrosa is an acoustic three-piece hailing from the Midlands, UK. They play a mix of pop, folk, soul and rock inspired guitar. The two guitarists have a background in post hardcore and progressive rock. The vocalist comes from a background in soul and jazz funk. Official website: http://www.subrosamusic.co.uk

4) See Sub Rosa for the Chicago based indie group. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SubRosa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.