Born in L.A. in 1978, Giovanni Marks was destined for an interesting future to say the least. After moving around the county (spending an excessive time in Compton, Lynwood, Camarillo and Mid-City) he settled in the boisterous metropolis region in 1997. After several years and multiple releases, he took a year hiatus while working at Aron's Records.   
 
Thru a chance meeting with the owner of GSL records, he eventually joined forces with the label. While doing it out of fan respect initially, he unknowingly carved out his own niche in both the indie rap and hardcore rock scenes. Playing every sort of venue with a eventual "who's who" of rock, rap and electronic music gave his own work a new sense of individuality that he felt was lacking prior to this connection.

After the release of the EP I'm Always Recovering From Tomorrow, Giovanni's status in the subterrain realm was sealed. Viewed as a robotic, dust-filled, smoke entity on the mic and a devolutionist with a broad sense of the greater music world, he worked for 2 years recording and re-recording his official debut while recording the suprisingly acclaimed album Zwarte Achtegrond with his part time co-conspirator Thavius Beck a.k.a. Adlib. When it was finally released in 2005, people called it everything from "the missing link" to "the answer to modern-day boring rap" which still did it no justice, we imagine.

Initially excluding himself to recording at home and releasing CD-R based recordings, Giovanni Marks has now decided to unveil his style of the world to the world. Producing music for himself, as well as other emcees in the scene, he's also programmed a few remixes for a couple of rap, rock and electronic groups such as Daedalus, 2MEX and Kill Me Tomorrow. With a new rap executive produced by rap wunderkind Daddy Kev and another Lab Waste record in the works, the road seems to run on forever in the tailormade world of Giovanni Marks/Subtitle.

Learn more at giovannimarks.com / onecellrecords.com / alphapuprecords.com 
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Subtitle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.