There multiple artists with this name:

1) A Norwich, UK hardcore metal act, likened to Pulkas, Neurosis and earthtone9, they released a debut ep titled 'My Greater Energy', and an album 'Assisted Suicides' in 2001 on Blank Canvas Records.(www.blankcanvas.co.uk/subvert)
Mannequin Reached #3 in the MP3 Charts in early 2002 and have toured the UK with bands such as Skindred, A Hundred Reasons, Charger, Unsane and Raging Speedhorn to name a few.
The band consisted of Jim Marten(vocals), Reuben Gotto (guitar) and Nick Barker(Drums) Rikki Gardiner (Bass)



2) Subvert is an electronic music artist hails from Calgary (Alberta, Canada). He produces glitch-hop music which is released for Muti Music and Rottun Recordings.
http://www.myspace.com/subvertsounds

3) A late '80s hardcore punk band from Seattle.

4) E.Greenwalt of Subvert went on to play in Christdriver and Black Noise Cannon, they released a self titled album in 1994 on Selfless records

5. A politically-charged Hardcore Punk/Ska band from Apple Valley, CA. Their sound is fast, precise, melodic..

6) Subvert hails from Calgary, Alberta and his winding path in music started in 1996. Proof of his dedication to ‘Bass’ is in his track record of creating the world’s loudest competition vehicles, designing pK’s 100,000 watt sound system and managing the Village Stage at Shambhala Music Festival. He started DJing in 2000 and combined with his extensive work on sound systems and attention to
precision sound, he was ultimately & naturally led down the path to creating his own music productions and once again the low frequencies consumed him. Subvert’s sound is a combination of throbbing, relentless basslines, melodic strings and haunting pianos singing through mid-tempo glitch / acid crunk and dubstep. His attention to detail and the ability to tune into ‘bass that works’ can be felt in all of his music productions.

It’s all about the bass… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Subvert">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.