Bio:
.. Subz & Matik's tunes transport, what most people love about drum & bass in the first place: A soulful dubbed out groove, topped with sparse but decent vocals, while not being cheesy. Nevertheless deep, jungley subbass plays the most important part in their production. Hence the name Subz & Matik. Remarkably, in most cases it is Matik the graduated sound engineer, adding the final touch to their basslines. In late 2002 Basswerk Labelmanager The Green Man (TGM) met the two guys. They booked him to do a gig on his album tour at their monthly "Subsonic Pressure" night. When they played their tune "Hear Dis" during that night, they hit his taste in jungle music instantly. The track was subsequently signed to Basswerk and became their first release. We consider this notably, as "Hear Dis" is Subz & Matik's first attempt to do drum and bass / jungle. It came out one year later as the flipside to TGM's "Easy" on Basswerk 21 - the record sold out. Another two years later they delivered "Dark Dub", as the flipside to Big Bud "Give A little" - the record also sold out. In 2008 they contributed "Lighthouse Blues" to the Basswerk Sessions 3 Compilation. Once again a well received track, being the best selling track of the compliation for a while on beatport. Other labels such as Soundtrax and Fokuz signed tunes from Subz & Matik, too. And when the first lady of Drum and Bass DJ Storm visited Kiel for a gig, she was deeply impressed by the sound of the two. Seeming quite unimpressed, Christoph Vogel and Jan Schmid-Lentzen aka Subz & Matik kept on doing business as usual. They produced more and more tunes and carried on doing "Subsonic Pressure". This attitude actually corresponds to the style of their track. And it is also typical for the city they hold their nights at. Kiel is situated in the very north of germany. Over there, people are quite relaxed and don't get to hyped about things easily. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Subz+&+Matik">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.