Soundtrack Symphonic Metal Band

Suddenlash is a Soundtrack Symphonic Metal Band from Barcelona. Our style is based on a lyric, very personal, lead female voice together with dense orchestrations and heavy obstinated rythms. Our songs speak of epic stories and about self conciensceness as well. Emotion is for sure our main goal. 

Lidia Guglieri (Vocals)

Born in Granada. From the age of 7 until she was 18, she studied classical ballet and modern dance in the school Terpsícore, in coordination with London’s Imperial Society of Dancing. In 2008 she obtained her Degree in Telecommunications Technical Engineering in Malaga’s University. In the fall of 2009 she moved to Barcelona where after a few time, she started her Singing studies under the tutelage of the soprano Rosa Maria Ribas. Her musical interests brought her to meet the composer and conductor David Magrané. Together they started then the Suddenlash project, which has given her the opportunity to sing in several acoustic performances. In 2010 she recorded the end titles’ song belonging to the soundtrack for the film Arkadia.

From then on, her artistic activity as Suddenlash’s singer goes on evolving, alongside with her job as computer programmer.

David Magrané (Composer-keyboards)

Born in Barcelona. At the age of 14 was admitted in the Conservatori Superior Municipal de Música de Barcelona where in 1993, he graduated in Conducting and Composition. In 1984 he conducted his first public performance. Since then, he has conducted several orchestras, performing in the most prestigious concert halls in Catalonia (Palau de la Música Catalana, Gran Teatre del Liceu, Auditori Nacional de Catalunya), as well as in France and Andorra. As for composing, he is the author of quite a number of works, symphonic and vocal either, as well as chamber music. Some of them have been premiered with remarkable success. He has also written film music. Currently he is conducting Sabadell’s Conservatory Symphony Orchestra.

In the last few years his main interest as composer and player has turned to Metal. As keyboardist, he has been involved in some projects of this style, especially Goth-Symphonic Metal. Since the beginning of 2011 he is a member of the Black Metal band Setge (http://www.myspace.com/setge). Presently he shares his personal creation project with the singer Lidia Guglieri. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suddenlash">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.