The band started out in 2002. They released their first demo CD, 'Living Life' , in 2003. The CD got really great coverage throughout the press, and sold out in a short amount of time. 

October 2004; Sudden Access recorded again a demo, called Another Day Of Suffering. It never made it to be official released, but was put on the official Sudden Access website by request. 

Most of 2004 and 2005 Sudden Access went on playing shows as support acts for bands like Dutch death metal masters Altar, New Orleans Crowbar and New York hardcore legends Merauder. The band gathered experience and ideas for their upcoming ‘Pièce de résistance’. 

2006: The band recorded their debut album “Piece Of Enemy” in the Dutch metal recording studio Harrow (Occult, Pestilence, Asphyx, etc.). The album consists of 9 tracks that best can be described as a mixture of hardcore, sludge and trashmetal. Influences can be heard like; Pantera, Pro-Pain, Slayer, Down, Crowbar and Arch Enemy. 

2007: With their new recruited bass player; FG, Sudden Access thrashed themselfs to the finals of the Dutch Metalbattle. Ambitious as they are Sudden Access is willing to play as much gigs as possible in Holland and beyond. With a stage performance that is massive, in your face, brutal and ear bleeding loud! 

2008: The year has just begun and yet it's the end, the "End of Time" that is. It's the title of the new EP. Dispite the name of the title, this might be the beginning of a new era. 5 Tracks of suffering, nightmares and other doomscenario's in ways you've never heard before. Be aware! 

July 2008: We are thrilled to announce that we have a new guitar player. His name is "Jay" (Jeroen ter Horst). Jay's a killer guitar player which perfectly fits the style of thrashcore we play. He used to abuse his Gibson guitars with Engl Powerball amps in metal bands like: Nocta, Mjolnir and Darkwoods, rock outfit the Evils and hardcore band RiseBackUp.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sudden+Access">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.