The year of Sufferatory’s foundation is 1998. Firstly it was composed of former members of Traur (Paul – guitars & Klim - bass) and God’s Grave (Lenar – drums) bands. From the first days Sufferatory are intended to play uncompromised pure brutal death. The influences were: Suffocation, Gorguts, Sinister, early Cannibal Corpse and Malevolent Creation. In 1999 Sufferatory recorded their first demo ‘Systematic Molestation’, consisted of 3 instrumental tracks. In the year 2000 the first vocalist joined the band and Sufferatory began making gigs. After two years they started to record an album, called ‘Compulsory Martyrdom’ with second vocalist Eugene. ‘Compulsory Martyrdom’ was released in 2003 on Tribal Production in a number of 100 copies. In 2005 Compulsory Martyrdom’ was reissued by Moscow’s label Coyote Records. 
During their early existence Sufferatory didn’t perform very often and emphasize on zealous        rehearsals. Delays with recording an upcoming release were explained by problems with line-up, especially vocalists. In year 2001 Dmitry "Speed" was replaced by Eugene "Spirit". But in 2003 Eugene leaves either because he started to listen other kind of music. In 2005 Sufferatory finds Bulat – frontman of the band, called Encrypted (demonic death metal) – who was interested in participating also in heavy fast brutal death band.
In 2006 Sufferatory again appeared in studio and recorded two-tracked single ‘Malformed Ignorance’. Unfortunately, it hasn’t been released.
In 2007 Klim decided to move to another city and band searched for new bassist. Soon on a place of the bass player band joined Max ‘Ziarath’. And with following line-up – Bulat – Vocals, Paul – Guitars, Max – Bass, Lenar – Drums, – on studios Sphinx and K-Sound in 2007 Sufferatory recorded MCD ‘Pseudophilosophic’. In the same year band signs contract with Sevared Records and Butchered Records for a release of MCD, that was finally out in April 2008. First track from this MCD now opens up a brutal death/grindcore compilation ‘Putrid Tunes vol.1’ of a famous metal-site www.metalXhead.com.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sufferatory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.