SUFFOCATE BASTARD is a technical brutal death metal band from Herten, North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany). Formed in 1999. 

Current line-up:
Brice Blanchard: Vocals (lead) (2007-present) (See also:  Dead Members ) 
David Adamietz: Bass (2000), Guitars (2001-present) 
Karsten "Boehni" Boehnke: Bass (2004-present) ( See also: ex- Eternal Dirge , ex- Musty Guts ) 
Tim Schlichting: Drums (2009-present) ( See also: ex- Agamendon , ex- Breed of Bacchus  ) 
Othon Kokkinos: Guitars (2010-present)

Discography:
1)Acts Of Contemporary Violence (2007) Download 

The birth of SUFFOCATE BASTARD reaches back to the year 2000. Stefan started back then to look out for a Death/Black Metal Band. He found a female guitar player and a drummer. They moved their rehearsing room to Herten/GER. After Stefan placed an ad at Idiots Records Music Store in Dortmund/GER Patrick and David answered the ad and thus joined the band; Patrick on guitars and David on bass. As the drummer left due to personal reasons Patrick switched to playing drums and David to guitars. As Patrick played a more brutal style of drumming and David more diverse on guitar the music changed towards more aggressive and extreme Metal. After the female guitar player left, Patrick swiched back to guitars when Mike Brown joined in on Drums. Because this new drummer was a really unreliable guy the band was forced again to switch positions. This was the time when the band decided to record their self-titled first Demo-Tape on 6 analogue tracks with Tim Donart (HYSTERIA). Thorsten Zank then joined in on bass. After that a second singer joined for a short term, additionally a new drummer (Sascha Fichtner) joined and each left quickly again, due to the fact that the music evolved more and more extreme and these guys could not keep up with the pace. Unfortunately this was the time when the band intended to record their second Demo-Tape. Luckily Meik Bartnick of the band PARANOIZ stepped in to fill in the vacant place on drums. Again somebody had to leave because of his unreliability, this was the bass player and again the band was incomplete. Despite that SUFFOCATE BASTARD recorded their second Demo in the neighbouring rehearsal room with the support of HYSTERIA and some friends. This Demo-CD is entitled "Architects Of Perversity" (see Discography-Section for details and music download). Because the drumming still was not extreme enough and he had another band anyway, Meik Bartnick left. After that, Karsten Boehnke (Ex-ETERNAL DIRGE, MUSTY GUTS) and Thorsten Bertram (Ex-PROVOCATION, CASTIGATE) joined in on bass and drums and that has been the beginning of the current era of SUFFOCATE BASTARD, as quite long experience met youthful eagerness. It seems as if the band with the new members are THE line-up who have searched each other for ages and have eventually found each other . We are now practising some old songs, have already written a lot of new ones and are everytime really amazed how great that synergetic effect is. Definitely all the songs now are much more brutal, significantly faster and extreme and currently we are eagerly rehearsing to be finally able to see you live on stage in early 2005. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suffocate+Bastard">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.