There are several bands by the name of Sugar: 
(1) Project of former Hüsker Dü member Bob Mould. 
(2) A Korean girl-pop group.
(3) A Japanese visual-kei group (Ｓｕｇａｒ).
(4) A Copenhagen producer, DJ and co-founder of Fast Forward Productions.
(5) An Australian psy-trance producer/artist
(6) A rockband from Den Bosch, The Netherlands.

Sugar (1) was formed by Bob Mould after the breakup of Hüsker Dü, and conceived as having a similar sound, though with Mould as the sole leader. As such, the band was a trio with Mould on guitar and voice, David Barbe (formerly of Mercyland) on bass, and Malcolm Travis (formerly with Zulus and Human Sexual Response) on drums. The band released three studio albums and a collection of live tracks and B-sides before breaking up in 1995.

SUGAR (2) (슈가) was a 4 member moderately successful girl pop group originating from South Korea. The group began in 2001 with their first album Tell Me Why that included the two singles Sweet Love and Tell Me Why. Afterwards a year later they released their sophomore album Shine which was more successful than their first. Like other fellow Korean acts SUGAR emerged into the Japanese market with their first two singles GO THE DISTANCE and All My Loving after their second Korean album. 
Then soon afterwards Jung Eum, a member of Sugar decided to leave the group after their mini album Secret was released. Replacing her with Haleen, SUGAR moved on to release two more singles and their sophomore Japanese album. Then moving back to their roots SUGAR released their 3rd Korean album Sweet Lips one year after their mini album. Yet after this release Soo Jin announced that she would also be leaving SUGAR to concentrate on an acting career. 
With the release of SUGAR's sophomore Japanese album COLORS 4 WISHES, each member decided to be a solo musician. Then on December 20, 2006 KBS World Radio announced that SUGAR would disband at the end of 2006. 아유미 (Ayumi/Ahyoomee) has since become a member of the SMTOWN family.

Sugar (3) (Ｓｕｇａｒ; シュガー) was a Japanese Visual/Nagoya Kei rock group made up of ex-Vall'na racill vocalist Loki, SIZNA (Gu.), 殊 (Koto; Ba.) and 篤人 (Atsuto; Dr.). The group started in mid 2004, and in 2005 they released their first single. Unfortunately, 殊 (Koto) left the group on December 29th, 2007 after their live at Shibuya CLUB QUATTRO. In January Shingo joined the band as their new bassist. In March 2008 they released their first full album, SWEETEST.

Only four months after the departure of 殊 (Koto), a newsletter was sent to fans explaining that they were to disband. This was due to musical differences between the members and they felt they were unable to continue on as a band. They also announced the Sugar LAST ONEMAN TOUR , a three day three-man event to be held prior to their final one-man tour. May 8th featured lynch. and Sel’m, DuelJewel and MaitoreiA on May 9th, and Ｍｏｒａｎ and ｂｏｏｇｉｅｍａｎ on the last date.
Their final release, titled Letters, came out on the 20th of May and was sold in advance, on May 8th, at the LAST ONEMAN TOUR [ epilogue ] at Takadanobada AREA. The final tour started May 15th at Sapporo KRAPS HALL and the final concert was at Shibuya O-East on the July 4th.

Read more here.

Sugar (4) is a Copenhagen producer, DJ and co-founder of Fast Forward Productions. His participation on raves in the city gained him success in a local techno community, and later he gained international recognition. Sugar has released a debut EP, No Sex Only Feelings, on Repro's Euromantic label. He has also contributed two tracks to Kulør 001, the first release on Courtesy's Kulør label.
SoundCloud

Sugar (5) is an Australian psy-trance producer / artist Felix Hamer, on the Green Ant from Melbourne, Australia. 

Sugar (6) is a rockband from Den Bosch, The Netherlands.
Website  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sugar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.