Sugababes are an English all-female pop trio based in London, UK, consisting of founding members Mutya Buena, Keisha Buchanan & Siobhán Donaghy. The group's initial run lasted from 1998 to 2012, with all 3 original members being replaced over that time. The original members of the group reformed in 2019, after a brief stint as Mutya Keisha Siobhan.

The group was formed in 1998 with original members Mutya Buena, Keisha Buchanan & Siobhán Donaghy, who were introduced to each other by manager Ron Tom. After some initial success, Donaghy departed and the introduction of Heidi Range (formerly of Atomic Kitten) in 2001 was met with the commercial breakthrough of the group's first number-one single "Freak Like Me" and parent album Angels with Dirty Faces in 2002. The group survived a second line-up change in 2005, when Mutya Buena left and was replaced by Amelle Berrabah. In September 2009, it was announced that after eleven years in the Sugababes, Keisha Buchanan was no longer a part of the group and had been replaced by Jade Ewen.

Sugababes have released twenty five singles, six of which have reached number-one in the UK and twenty have reached the top 20 in the UK, seven studio albums that have reached top 40 charts worldwide with success around Europe and Asia having number-one singles in fifteen countries. With seventeen of their twenty five single releases achieving top ten chart success in the UK, Brit Award winners, the trio have been named the UK's most successful female act of the 21st century. Upon the release of "About You Now" (2007), the Sugababes became the only female act to have topped the single, album, and download charts simultaneously twice, having previously achieved the same feat in 2005 with "Push the Button". They have attained at least platinum certification for five of their albums in the UK.

Their most recent release 'Sweet 7' saw them scoring yet another 3 Top 10 hits in the UK charts, with also being Sugababes' first studio album to be recorded with new member Jade Ewen. In September 2013, Ewen stated that the Sugababes officially split in 2011. Ewen claimed that the band "fizzled out" two years ago and are "pretty much done", saying: "I don't feel comfortable lying", but Berrabah claimed afterwards that they will all be "getting back together at the end of next year". Meanwhile, the three original band members got back together and went on to form Mutya Keisha Siobhan, releasing one single, 'Flatline', in 2013. A full album was recorded but never released, with the majority of tracks recorded leaking from Christmas 2016.

In July 2019, the original line-up of the band confirmed they were back in the studio making music - with a cover of Sweet Female Attitude's 'Flowers' set to appear on the compilation album 'DJ Spoony Presents Garage Classical'. In September 2019, the pre-order for the compilation album confirmed the original trio had regained the name Sugababes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sugababes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.