Sui Zhen  is a singer/songwriter and composer from Sydney, Australia. She began performing solo in 2003 and has since headlined with her full live band at Sydney venues  The Factory (Marrickville), The Hopetoun  and  The Annandale. Sui Zhen  has supported the likes of  Coco Rosie (US), Darren Hanlon, Bluebottle Kiss, Jamie Hutchings,The Brunettes (NZ), Ian Cooke (US), Joel Plaskett (CAN)  and  The Grates.

Sui Zhen’s solo instrumentation relies solely on the melodies created by her voice and guitar. It her is unique voice that intrigues audiences most. In band format, Sui Zhen’s sound grows into dreamy soundscapes with darker rockier moments juxtaposed against soft folk-pop instrumentation and harmonies which allow the core of the songs to shine through.

To date, Sui Zhen has recorded a self-titled EP which was launched late 2007 to glowing reviews. The EP was produced by the immensely talented Steeve Body at his Limestone Studios nestled above Oxford Street in Sydney’s Surry Hills. The EP is set for national release mid 2008.

Sui Zhen has also collaborated with electronic producer Jamie Lloyd on various short film projects, which were received to critical acclaim at the University of Technology’s Tri-Annual Golden Eye Awards winning best Sound Composition for ’37 Scenes in the Company of a Rabbit’ by Imogen Heath.

Sui Zhen plans to release a new single later this year, entitled ‘Sailor’ a collaboration soundtrack piece made with producer and friend, Steeve Body, for Sam Icklow’s short film, ‘Untitled Film Stills’ . She is also working on a new duo project with Jamie Lloyd, ‘Little Hat’ inspired by the life and times of their pet Guinea Pig, Mister Sakamoto.

Sui Zhen is currently writing material for a full length album set for release sometime in 2009. Sui Zhen is also dreaming up a master-plan to combine her art with international travel.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sui+Zhen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.