Suicide Note sprang from the ashes of Failsafe, a band that played metallic hardcore in the "Region" (Northwest Indiana) for the better part of the mid to late '90s. The band was growing tired of the Failsafe moniker and vocalist Keith so they proceeded to change the line-up and name, therefore gaining a fresh attitude and renewed enthusiasm towards their music.

The band at the time consisted of: Jason Gagovski (drums), Jay Golday (guitar) and Bob Peele (bass). They added good friend Casey Donley on vocals and the foursome then seemed complete. They completely scrapped all of their previous songs and started writing new material with a new feel and direction. Not afraid to throw some melody into their noisey brand of hardcore, the band shows that it is still possible to have a fresh take on modern music and the hardcore scene.

They recorded eight songs in the fall of '99 in Indianapolis and prepared a demo tape that sold hundreds of copies in a matter of months. Most of the songs have now found their home on various releases including: a split 7" with Sever the Cord (on Hawthorne Street, an appearance on the comp CD (alongside Craw, Keelhaul and Season to Risk) called the Decline of Western Civilization, tracks on two compilations from Indiana - one on Happy Couples Never Last and Ape Records, and a split with Knives In Greenwater on One Day Savior.

The band then released their debut CD EP, entitlde Come On Save Me on Hawthorne Street and began to make a name for themselves across the Midwest doing a few small tours and weekend shows in 2000-2001.

Upon hearing that CD Carl Severson, CEO of the Ferret Music Group empire called the band up and signed them up for a two record deal. The first of which came out in the summer of 2002 entitled You're Not Looking So Good. Upon release of the CD the band did a four week tour with good friends and HSR labelmates Exam that took them all over the East Coast and Midwest.

The winter of 2002 saw them do a small tour with another group of friends, the Deadly. The band has also, over the years, shared the stage with acts such as: Converge, Isis, Botch, Turmoil, Poison the Well, Bane, Grade, Reach the Sky, the Hope Conspiracy, Kill Holiday, Orchid, Garrison, the Blood Brothers, Racebannon and more. 

The band's most recent release is "Too Sick To Dance (Forever F*cked)" which came out on October 19th, 2004 on Ferret. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suicide+Note">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.