Suicide Crypt was founded by vocalist Adrian in late 2003, but never amounted to anything, Until Tom (Lead guitar) and Chris (Drums) had similar interests. Suicide Crypt began for the first official time in Late 2004, encorporating all the bands varying taste in music. Still a bass player was needed as the band's first gig was not far away. After a number of unsucessful auditions Rob was recruited as the last member of the Crypt. The band then gradualy started giging and writting new material and a first recording was on the way, known as "Blessed in Blood demo". As the band progressed a second guitarist was needed so Rob took up duites and became the rhythm guitarist. After searching for a new bass player SC met up with Simon who then became the new bass player. Suicide Crypt began pounding their unique sound into out of town venues round the UK, and an EP was in the making known as "The Face of the Ages". The Crypt was then contacted by David Gilmore of Hitch-Hike records asking if they were interested in a record deal. Suicide Crypt accepted and a contract was signed in late january 2006. After a rough few months Rob and Suicide Crypt parted ways due to musical differences, so a search was on for a new guitarist. Joe was found not so long after, However, just a few weeks after the first recording Joe, wanting to play lighter music and Suicide Crypt, wanting to go even heavier parted ways. Toby, a dedicated musician from Bristol contacted the Crypt for an auditon, after just 1 week in the band and 2 practices Toby was thrown in at the deep end and played two outstanding gigs with the crypt in on weekend. After this SC instantly new Toby was the commited guitarist they were after. With a busy year coming up , a Tour/Single/Album is all yet to come. Watch this space... 



Real Underrated Noise - "Bone chilling lyrics, terrifying riffs and screams that will scare you half to death!"


EGG Magazine - "You will love being blasted to hell and back by the Crypt". 


The Forrester - " Heaving riffs, amazing lead guitar and haunting vocals, if your into goth metal, check them out you will not be disappointed!" 


The knowhere gig guide - "Suicide Crypt rock the worlds of pretty much anyone who sees em.

Ben kelly (Metal Revier/Assessor) - ultra-fast blend of melodic death metal, 9.5/10 - 

http://myspace.com/suicidecrypt <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suicide+Crypt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.