1992: SUICIDAL WINDS as a band name and concept is born through Peter and Mathias former band KRISTOS MORTIS. 1994: The reh/demo "The Road To..." is spread in rather small extent due to the extremely primitive nature of this tape. 1996: A new reh/demo called "Massacre" is recorded. Introducing the new bassist Andreas Ström. 
It includes six own songs and two HELLHAMMER covers. 1997: Third demo "Aggression" is recorded with new drummer Martin Hogebrandt. It consists of five songs, one of them a cover of SEPULTURA’s classic "Antichrist". Fourth demo "Definitely War" is also recorded but isn’t released until May 1998. 1998: Late this year the band comes in contact with German label No Colours Records which results in a two album deal. 1999: The debut album "Winds of Death" is recorded with producer Robert Bengtsson (GRIEF OF EMERALD), who later came to produce all of their full-lenghts. Both an LP and CD version is released. The response is very good. 
2000: The band themselves release a split 7" EP with BESTIAL MOCKERY. The 300 copies gets sold out very fast. 2001: Second full-lenght album "Victims in Blood" is out through No Colours Records. 2002: A 7" EP called "Misanthropic Anger" is released by Warlord Records. New recruits Emil Johansson (ILL NATURED), Fredrik Andersson (AXIS POWERS) and Thomas Hedgren (PSYCHOMANTUM) replace Andreas and Martin.
 The MLP/MCD "Crush us with fire" is released introducing the new line-up. Including four new songs, a GROTESQUE cover and a live track from 2001. 2003: The band leaves No Colours Records and signs a two album deal with Agonia Records in Poland. Some gigs are done. 2004: Third full-lenght album "Wrath of God" is released. 2005: Some gigs are played. 2006: The band releases a split CD called "From conflict to conquest" with American band GRAVEWURM on Time Before Time Records. Gigs are done in Sweden and Germany and one is recorded on the Festung Open Air festival. This will be released by Pulverised records in a near future. No colours records is re-releasing "Winds of Death" with bonus tracks on CD. SUICIDAL WINDS has also contributed on several compilations and live tapes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suicidal+Winds">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.