Free tracks can be downloaded at their offical website,http://www.suicidelegacy.com/media.html

During the fall of 2006 a single man was yearning for a good olí death metal band. He had composed material and all he was lacking was a group of great players around him. This man was called Mara by all. Then at one evening he played something he had just recorded to his friend, Henkka, a little man with big motherfucking mouth of bullets. It was that evening when things started to turn... Henkka said immediately that he would want to sing these songs and the two of them praised their pints in the air for the mayhem to come. 

Now Mara had a vocalist and himself playing one guitar but there was still need for drummer, bass player and another guitarist. Together they hunted down a great drummer Miikka, a friend of them both and a bandmate of Henkkaís other band Antarktis Utopia. Henkka knew that Miikkaís battery would be a perfect solution for this hellish group. The engangement was easy and painless as Miikka started to learn more and more songs at the same time Henkka was writing lyrics on them. 

When there was no guitarist in sight Henkka took the other guitar in his hands and promised to play and sing until another guitarist is found. This took a little time and Mara sought a man in his mystic visions who would play the bass in this league of extraordinary metallians. This man was Tommi, an aggressive son of a bitch wielding his bass like it was only a mere whore who had to be taught. No guestions asked, no wonderings left in the air Tommi said yes to the call of Mara. 

It didnít take long before they found another shocking guitarist. This man was Antti, a massive monster handling any guitar he could get in to his claws. Not only with a skill of destructive guitar playing Antti came with the idea of band name. A name what would be known all over the land, feared by many and honored by all. Suicide Legacy was born. Mara looked around him and saw this great group of angry metalheads surrounding him. A nasty smile appeared to his face... for this was the beginning of a great reign! 

At the the spring of 2007 Suicide Legacy recorded their first demo and started to spread the havoc and malice at Musta Wappu 2007, Iltatähti, Lappeenranta. The reign has started... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suicide+Legacy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.