SUICIDE OF DEMONS was born in April 2005, when brothers Fern and Jo found Nohell thanks to an add. Their musical influences are totally different, the 2 brothers being more influenced by melodic speed metal and Nohell by death metal.
However, they totally match. As a proof, not less than 8 songs were written in a month.
Music and lyrics are exclusively written by Fern and Jo.
They enter the studio to record their first demo-cd in December 2005. Recorded and mixed by Trionix, this self-produced 3 songs-cd, called "DEVASTATE TO LIBERATE", is released on January 1st 2006.
They play a lot of gigs during 2006, that make them travel a lot across Belgium and receive a lot of good critics and reviews.
In September 2006, they are reviewed in the famous METALLIAN magazine, that sees a very promising band.
They also make a hard promotional work on myspace, which leads them to a partnership with DARK ANGEL MANAGEMENT, Italy.
In the meantime, they feature in the "Poetry of the Dead vol 1" compilation (released in October 2006) with the song "Crush the Antichrist", and make their 1st radio interview for Radio Panik, Brussels.
They enter the studio for the second time in October 2006 to record REAP WHAT YOU SOW, a 5-tracks EP, recorded and mixed again by Trionix, in collaboration with Fernando and Johan.
With this recording, they put their limits further away and reach a higher level of musical heavyness and professionalism.
In the meanwhile, they make their 2nd interview for the australian magazine, "Heavy metal nation.com".
In 2007, they begin to play as opening acts for bands such as Aborted, Leng t'che, Dagoba...
Unfortunately, Nohell decides to leave the band for personal reasons in January. He's thus replaced by Seb, who takes the job of bass playing, and by Chris as lead vocalist.
Beginning march, this new line-up begins the best way for their first gig, with the audience prize at ROCK AROUND contest and the official release of REAP WHAT YOU SOW.
Suicide of Demons is now working on their first full-length album and hopes to reach a worldwide success... 

http://www.myspace.com/suicideofdemons <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suicide+of+Demons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.