A phoenix-like tale marked the rebirth of the band, previously known as Abiogenesis, into the beast that’s now known as SuiderbeeS. The earlier incarnation of the band was found by Molok and Tier.

They struggled for years to build up a strong and stable line-up that could deliver their brand of brutality fused with epic symphonic passages. After many changes in the band’s structure, Heinrich joined the band in 2007 to show his talents as guitarist and recording and mastering songs.

Quite a few bands were emerging under the same name Abiogenesis, which had the members then decide on SuiderbeeS in, after deciding to incorporate black metal into their sound and showing their rich and proud South African heritage to the world.

For those of you who aren’t familiar with the Afrikaans language, SuiderbeeS is Afrikaans for Southern Beast and is pronounced Say-der-b-s.

Included in the change of name was the arrival of Dawie Pretorius (ex Decimation Age guitarist) and Mayahuel who joined the band in December 2009 to add to the bands sounds and talents. This is the first time the band consisted of a stable line-up. However, a drummer was still needed before daring to take the stage. Finding a dedicated permanent drummer seemed nearly impossible.

At Ramfest 2010 SuiderbeeS gave the public a taste of what’s to come by spreading a self-released demo comicly titled Demo(n). The demo was printed for promotional reason and was limited to a hundred copies, but permission was granted to copy it and spread it around. 

In April 2010, SuiderbeeS’ line-up was completed with the addition of talented drummer, Cole Grainger (formerly from Symphonic Schizophrenia). With the addition of Cole the band was ready to hit the stage and did so in mid 2010 alongside some of the local talents. 

From the name change SuiderbeeS was mocked for choosing a different path from the norm. Although as soon as they took to the stage and blasted their music across the soundwaves it made it clear that the beeS is a force not to be taken lightly. They quickly won the respect of music lovers and fellow bands.

So far it has been a great start for SuiderbeeS. We will have to wait and see what the future has in store for this BEESPOESBRUTAL death metal band!!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/SuiderbeeS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.