Sulphur Aeon are a death metal band that formed in 2010 in Nordrhein-Westfalen, Germany. The band are currently signed to Ván Records and Imperium Productions. They have released one demo, one EP, and three full-length albums. Their most recent full-length album, 'The Scythe of Cosmic Chaos', was released on December 21st 2018.

Facebook / Bandcamp

Band:
M. - Vocals
T. - Guitar, bass
D. - Drums

Biography:
"SULPHUR AEON was founded by myself. It was not meant to be a project nor was it meant to be a "real" band. I wanted to do something that comes completely from myself, a kind of act of release without any form of compromise. After finishing the songs for the demotape M., a longtime friend of mine, was my first choice as a vocalist and luckily he could identify with what I wrote and recorded there. So that was how he came into the band. For the 7" we definitely wanted real drums. D. was first and natural choice because I knew he liked the material and I was also sure that he could play it. So with D. joining the band, the line-up was complete for we have decided to stay a three-piece in order to avoid discussions about songwriting. It might sound selfish, but I just don't want to make any compromises any more. I've had that far too often in the past and I'd like to avoid it in the future. In the beginning, it was never planned to perform live but after we released the 7" voices grew louder that demanded stage appearance. With the release of the album we decided to give it a try and it worked out great. Therefore we had the help of Marcel and Sascha. We divide it, there is the live line-up which is a complete band, and then there is the core line-up for the creative process. Marcel was a natural choice for me since we've been long time friends and also played together in the past, whereas Sascha was introduced to us by Simon, our sound engineer. Marcel became far too busy with his own projects and decided to quit the job. Luckily we found adequate replacement in Andi who does a brillant job, for it's not that easy to replace Marcel as a guitarist and to learn a whole set in just about a month. And yes, DECEMBER FLOWER and SULPHUR AEON rehearse in the same room."

- Guitarist / bass-player "T" (Voices from the Darkside Webzine) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sulphur+Aeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.