Thrash metal veteran Mem V. Stein formed Sun Descends in NYC, September of 2000, after taking a sabbatical from music that lasted two years and included a re-location from Europe to the U.S Founded on the principals of a deep-rooted passion for thrash metal, Mem’s vision remained constant throughout all the ups and downs in the years to come. SD went through numerous line-up changes and several releases since they first surfaced on the international metal landscape in 2001. That year, High Vaultage Records from Germany released the band’s first EP, “Tide in the Affairs of Men”; soon after Mem had played the Wacken open-air festival for a one-off Exumer reunion show.

However, things quieted down following the release and SD went into a hiatus.
Then in January 2004, Mem met guitarist Sam Awry. The two musicians recruited bassist, Jillian Ann La Boy shortly after, began writing songs and playing live with an ever-revolving roster of drummers.

The first output of this SD incarnation became the self-released “Kanun-Law” EP, in the summer of 2004. Receiving much more attention from the international press than it’s predecessor, the EP along with SD’s first recording was re-released in early 2005. Marquee Records from Brazil and Khaosmaster Productions from Puerto Rico released and distributed the professionally packaged release to a thrash hungry audience all over the globe in the metal underground.

In July 2005, SD braced them selves for a long-overdue full-length cd and entered Don Fury’s Cyclone Sound Studio in Coney Island, NY, where the band and Don had previously worked on their 2nd EP.

The result of that session became the 10 tracks strong “Incinerating the Meek.” Distributed worldwide via Twilight Distribution from Germany. The recording showcased guest appearances from Craig Horval of Nunslaughter/Crucified Mortals and His Eminence the Wicked of Terror of the Trees. Also included on “I.T.M.” as a bonus, was the band’s first video clip for the song “Intercepting Daggers”.

In the summer of 2006, SD went yet through another major personnel change. The band's guitarist & main riffer, Sam Awry, decided to leave the outfit one month after drummer Chris Torre and bassist Jillian La Boy had called it quits. Mem was left without any players but with a scheduled recording date in Germany for November 2006. SD's mastermind had to cancel the studio date in Germany, where the band was booked to record their second full-length cd for Twilight Distribution.

After a few weeks of intensive investigations, Mem found guitarists Kristian Shamash and drummer Steve Proios in September 06. Refusing to budge or dismiss the project, the veteran vocalist kept the band on course and started the writing process anew with Kristian and Steve. Then in late 2006, the trio recruited Lou Cortez, a Bronx-raised guitarist, to enhance the sonic assaults on SD’s second full-length album and for the up-coming live performances.

The band continued to write material, pushing back several recording dates for what ultimately materialized as the band’s second full-length album: “The Entropy Formula”. In order to record the “T.E.F.”, Sun Descends entered Big Blue Meenie Studios in Jersey City, late June 2007, spewing out 10 new tracks of vintage thrash metal anthems. Bringing back the hardcore feel that was apparent in thrash metal of the 1980s, the band combined the styles of thrash metal and hardcore. SD adhered on “The Entropy Formula”, to the very same philosophy that made thrash metal popular in its beginning stages, melting the musicianship of metal with the energy of hardcore and punk. Produced by long-time friend “His Eminence the Wicked”, and engineered by Arun Venkatesh, “The Entropy Formula”, is SD’s latest testimony for the band’s commitment to keep undiluted thrash metal alive for the years to come.

“The Entropy Formula” features artwork from one of NYC’s finest and pioneer illustrators; Sean Taggart. Sean’s cover design is the final piece that completes SD’s vision for this new chapter and brings back NYC HC THRASH METAL full circle.

  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sun+Descends">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.