1. A metal band from Greece
2. Real Name:  Matt Darey
3. A Tanzanian band formed in 1970 

1. SUNBURST is the brain child of Gus Drax (Biomechanical,Paradox,Black Fate), Vasilis Georgiou( Innosense,Black Fate) and Kostas Milonas(New Day Slave,Foray Between Ocean,Paradox, Outloud)
The Band was formed in 2010 and has already found its way out of Greece playing in Moonlight Metalfest and R-mine Metalfest supporting Symphony X.The band is currently in the studio recording its Debut Album!


2. Real Name:  Matt Darey

Matt has been one of the pioneers of today’s dance scene being a major influence on today’s world class DJ’s. Throughout his 17 year career of producing & writing house, trance, breaks and progressive and much more he has sold well over 2 million albums & Singles with numerous top 10 & top 20 chart hits. Matt took a 3 year break from music in 2000 to travel the globe and then returned to start his own label “Darey Products” and embark on new projects. Since 2004 Matt has been touring the globe as a DJ and is now rated No 59 in the Top 100 DJ Poll 2007. As a true international DJ Matt now offers a unique insight into today’s music across several genres being the first to play the majority of new releases on his international Nocturnal Radio show. Nocturnal is now officially the worlds fastest expanding Dance Radio show now broadcast on 115 Radio Stations worldwide since its official launch in April 2006.
---------------------------
Matt Darey started his musical career back in 1992 when he released his own independent record and soon after signed his first major album deal with Warner Bro’s and Sire Records in NYC. Matt’s productions have been a major influence on many of todays top DJ’s like Oakenfold, Tiesto, Armin Van Buren, Paul Van Dyk, Above & Beyond and many more. A chameleon of sound, Matt has produced everything from breaks to house to trance and progressive and was responsible for some of the pinnacle tracks and top ten chart hits to come from the scene including Li Kwan – Point Zero, Lost Tribe – Game Master, ATB – Till I Come, Binary Finary - 1998, Grace – Not Over Yet, Matt Darey - Beautiful and countless others! Constantly touring the globe Matt is respected as a leading DJ in the scene bringing a truly international & Multi genre flavor to his sets.

Li Kwan – Point Zero was one of the first records to be made of the new Genre that then went on to be known as Trance. Embraced by leading DJ’s at the time Pete Tong who made Matt his essential new tune twice and Paul Oakenfold who quoted that Li Kwan was in his top 5 all time fav tracks. Following on from that Matt got into the remix game and turned out numerous club hits which are listed in the discography section. Meanwhile Matt launched his new act Lost Tribe and created one of the all time club anthems Gamemaster on the legendary Hooj Choons label. Matt also went on to launch artists like Tall Paul and Agnelli & Nelson in to the top 20 for the first time with his massive A -side productions. Since 1998 he sold well over 2 million singles and albums with the Darey imprint and has been responsible for some of the biggest remixes and productions. Matt took a vacation from the world of music for almost 3 years from 2001 to 2004 and then came back to launch his own label Darey Products. Today he continues to push forward the sounds of dance music into new areas with his rock influenced productions and has continued to tour the globe with his own unique blend of music from many genres. Most recently he launched his globally syndicated Radio show which soon became the fastest growing dance show on the planet. Within 9 months of its launch it was broadcast each week by over 100 FM stations across the globe and continues to grow.


3. Sunburst was a Tanzanian band formed in 1970 by Zairean guitarist Hembi Flory Kongo who recruited resident drummer Johnny “Rocks” Fernandes, bass player Bashir Idi Farhan and organist / vocalist Kassim Magati. They were soon joined by Zambian-born lead singer James Mpungo.

Having developing their sound via covers-heavy live performances and a string of early singles, Sunburst’s sole LP came out at a time when Zambia was enjoying a stream of releases by bands that would now be considered icons of Zamrock such as Witch, Ngozi Family, Musi-O-Tunya and The Blackfoot. The sleeve text described the Sunburst sound as “a fusion of the traditional sounds of Africa with Western Rock, spiced with a piece of the Caribbean” but the intricacies of the Kitoto Sound that Sunburst had crafted for years peaked on this recording. Band members born in six different countries were tapping into a multitude of influences, styles, languages and stories. “We try to compose songs that have a bearing to the situation we live in,” James Mpungo recounted at the time. “Our songs are songs that support freedom struggles, songs that encourage peasants and workers to work harder, songs in praise of our leaders. We also sing a lot of songs criticizing our people for allowing themselves to be too westernized and throwing away their traditional values. And above all, we preach love and happiness!”

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sunburst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.