There are multiple artists that perform under the name Sundown: 1. A Swedish gothic metal band, 2. An American 60's/70's rock band from Macon, GA, 3. An American reggae/ska/jam band from Boston, MA, 4. A Dutch folk band from Groningen, 5. An American experimental/neofolk band of JM Sundown, 5. An American alternative rock band  from Indianapolis, IN, 6. An Irish rock band, 7. A funk/soul artist.

1. As the first aspect of Cemetary went to its grave, Sundown rose from the ashes, when Mathias Lodmalm teamed up with bass-player Johnny Hagel. Hagel had played in Tiamat, another well known Swedish band. Together with drummer Christian Silver, another member of Cemetary, they started to create what was going to be Design 19, their debut album. The 19 tour followed the album, and Andreas Johansson was recruited to play the guitar.

The second release from Sundown (not counting the digi-pack version of Design 19) was Glimmer. Before this album had reached the market in 1999, some major changes had been made within the band. Most evident was the departure of Hagel, who left to later form Lithium. Andreas Karlsson took the role of playing the bass, and Herman Engström replaced Andreas Johansson on guitar. Glimmer was produced, mixed and engineered by Lodmalm and Silver, and all music and lyrics was written by Lodmalm.

The musical direction was moving further away from metal, which is the trademark for their label, Century Media. The decision to disband Sundown was made and Lodmalm reformed Cemetary under the name of Cemetary 1213 together with Christian Silver and Herman Engström.

2. Sundown was a local Macon band that was in the studio with Paul Hornsby producing in 1970. Recording did not go smoothly, since the band broke up a couple of times during the recording. Paul Hornsby brought in some buddies and wound up finishing the record using names like Bill Stewart (Capricorn Rhythm Section), Charlie Hayward (later of the Charlie Daniels Band) and Chuck Leavell on piano (later of The Allman Brothers Band and Sea Level). Paul Hornsby also played organ. The album has been compared to The Allman Brothers Band and their precursor, The Hour Glass. It's basically old school 60's rock, and at times a little country twang gives away its origin.

4. The Dutch folk duo Sundown released one self-titled album in 1970.

6. The alternative rock band Sundown from Indianapolis, IN, released a demo in 2021. They then released the full-length album Keep Moving in 2022. Their music is influenced by punk, hardcore, and garage rock.

7. The Irish rock band Sundown began releasing music in 2019. Their singles include Deal With The Devil, = Kicking Up a Storm, and Fall From Grace, among others.

8. The funk/soul artist Sundown, also known as Space Cadets, released one single, Spaced Outta Place on Parkside Records in 1981. It was reissued in 2022 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sundown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.