(1): Swedish jazz-rock band that released one album in 1976. Featured Stephen Frankevich (brass instruments, vocals). Other members: Anita Nyman: vocals; Salomon Helperin: brass instruments; Carl-Axel Hall: keyboards; Harald Stenström: bass, tuba; Nils Nordin: drums, perc. Guest: Ulf Wakenius, guitar.

(2):
Origin: Portugal (Lisbon),Last known line-up: Mauro Coelho - vocals, Luis Justin - keys, Rafael Ripper - bass (Se7enty Se7en, Etherial Grief), Emílio Salas - drums (Se7enty Se7en)
Releases: Demo '98 - 1998, Bleed the Sun - Full-length, 1997
 
(3)  Early 70s hard rock album with a rural feel. Slightly above average for the genre, but not a stand-out. They’re from Chico, which may be California but isn’t the usual stomping ground of rock bands. “Chico Women” is a terrific song. Recommended to fans of the style." (Acid Archives)

"The sole album from this Chico, CA quintet was unfortunately released just as their label (Kapp) was dissolving (1971; the final Kapp release came out the following year, although the label had been sold to MCA back in ‘67). It’s a tight knit collection of self-penned bluesy jams, featuring the twin guitar attack of Steve Cooley and Fred Campbell with excellent harmony vocals throughout. “Jeweled Scene Stealer” has some particularly tasty guitar soloing, and Cooley’s paean to the local babes, “Chico Women” coming across as particularly funky and beer-soaked.

Campbell whips out his flute and acoustic classical guitar for Side 2’s short, reflective opener, “Changes,” which segues quite nicely into the unusually syncopated time changes of the bluesy howler, “People Change.” Guest Eddie Abner’s steel guitar” and the omnipresent harmonies imbue “Blue Water” with a nice country rock flavor that should please fans of the goodtime groove of New Riders of The Purple Sage, Little Feat and Heartsfield (check out 1975’s “Foolish Pleasures”), with a hint of The Allmans not too far off in the distance.

Bassist Randy Reaves, who wrote or co-wrote seven of the album’s nine tracks, turns in one of his best efforts on “Movie,” a hard-driving, two-step toodle-oo that predicts some of the southern fried chicken rock of Lynyrd Skynyrd and Marshall Tucker. If sweaty, straight ahead bluesy country rock is your cup of moonshine, come forth and drink from the fountain that is Sundance."  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sundance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.