Sunnery James and Ryan Marciano, two notable personalities with a single goal: to entertain as many people as possible with their deep and funky house sound. As a DJ duo, they are irresistible. Put them in a DJ booth together and instant interaction and chemistry is there, with an eye for the audience and an ear for each other. Effortlessly adapting to one another seems to be no problem for these two best friends and partners in crime.   
From the moment they entered the DJ profession, they agreed to do something serious with their common passion: house music. Quickly after their first gig together Sunnery and Ryan established themselves as top DJs.

Besides performing, they are very busy with producing. Even that is something they do together. As if they don’t see enough of one another during gigs and their private lives, they’re also studio buddies. In May 2008 they released their first track ‘Pina. One month later, Sunnery and Ryan released the club hit ‘Lift U Up’, featuring Melvin Reese and Chappell. After these successful productions, Sunnery & Ryan continued with tracks such as ‘The Desert’, which has been released on D.O.N.S.’s Kingdome Cuts, and several remixes such as Sander Kleinenberg’s ‘This Is Our Night’ and Kaskade’s ‘Dynasty’.
In February 2010, Sunnery and Ryan launched their very own ‘Amazone Project’ event in Heineken Music Hall Amsterdam. 5500 fans came to join the SJ-RM-hype and witnessed an exclusive 5-hour-set. The Amazone Project compilation album entered #2 in the charts. Amazone Project also hosted areas at the Dirty Dutch Indoor event (30.000 visitors) and the Dirty Dutch VS The World Festival. 

The SJ-RM journey continuous in 2010, where Sunnery James & Ryan Marciano will make their debut at the prestigious Sensation event in Amsterdam Arena on July 3rd. Sunnery and Ryan will also join the Swedish House Mafia club nights at Pacha Ibiza during the summer season.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sunnery+James+&+Ryan+Marciano">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.