Sunship is the brainchild of producer Ceri Evans. 
The Sunship crew has grown over the last sixteen years, and now features essential crew members DJ Chunky bringing on board the DJ skills, along with James 'The Doctor' Dowbekin with his engineering skills and all round Mac Omnipotence! Sunship first appeared in 1991 with the breakbeat track 'Sunship' on the Acid Jazz label.Since then, there have been many twists and turns on the path over years. 

At the start, there were remixes and productions for artists such as Naughty by Nature(Hip Hop Hooray), and Jungle Brothers(40 below)and James Taylor(Hope and Pray). A long stint with the Dorado label followed, under the Filter banner, with a mobo award winning debut album titled 'Sunship'.Towards the latter end of the nineties, Sunship had fully embraced the UK garage sound, beginning a prolific spell of remixes and productions. Sunship tunes such as 'Try me out' and 'Cheque-One-Two' became club smashes, with Sunship remixes of Jelhisa's 'Friendly Pressure', and E17's 'Each time' tearing up clubs and radio. 

Come the Millennium it was all systems go, with a Sunship remix of Sweet Female Attitude's 'Flowers' becoming the main mix and hitting the chart at number 2, with a Sunship remix on the Craig David number 1 'Fill Me In' all happening in the same week, it set the pace for a Sunship production of Misteeq's 'All I Want' to hit with a second number two for Sunship productions, and a Sunship remix of Craig David's '7 Days' receiving the ultimate accolade of pure battering on the pirates and in the clubs. Remixes for varied artists such as Christina Aguilera,Texas,and Morcheeba followed,and a Sunship album featuring the likes of the Stonebridge outfit Suncycle was delivered to Go-beat, which unfortunately never materialised with an official release. 

The next Sunship release featured the Warrior Queen. Soulful vocalist Cazza was next with the tune 'Some Kinda Fool', and forthcoming releases include Warrior Queen's serious follow up single 'Quits', and some original 2 step and bassline action from the inspirational vocalist Charlise, with '4u4me', the likes of which is already finding its way onto EZ's Kiss FM show. 

Sunship has made a big start to 2007,with a spate of remixes,firstly the 'So Complicated Remix' for Midnight Circus,followed up by the 'Unappreciated Remix' for the American group Cherish.Next up was the 'Crazy Remix' and the 'Hands On Her Remix',both of which are available on the Stereohype website.All of these tracks have been receiving heavy support from radio and clubland alike.With many new projects in the pipeline 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sunship">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.