History of Sunseth Sphere

In the brain-boiling summer of 1998 the two old friends, we Péter Márton and György Bánfalvi had conflicts regarding musical facts with our former band, and so we had left. We've founded a new band called ShockWave, and then in November of 1998 László Landy, the drummer, who was also 'single' at that time, joined us.
We have known each other for a long time due to having tours together with our former bands. The only problem was to find the proper singer for us. Many male singers played with us, but none of them was the perfect one.
We thought we have to give some colour for our musical style, so we needed to find a keyboards-player. Then Kyrah appeared, as she had also left her former band. We understood at once, that we have found the perfect person for our concepts. Soon it developed that playing keyboards is not her only advantageous side, but she has excellent voice too! Both this and her strong will to become a good singer enchanted the band, so in February 2000 all the problems of us were solved at one moment.
With this new "staff " our music had been basically changed, so we thought we had to change the name of the band too. Sunseth Sphere as a new name seemed to be quite good for all of us.
After half years' hard work, the songs for the 'Storm Before Silence' - album were completed, we went to the studio "Pont-Mi" at Székesfehérvár, Hungary to record the songs from 25th September 2000 - to 8th October 2000. After finishing this session we have made efforts to find the proper company to release the album. We've received many positive reflections, and the offer of the Dutch company "Hammerheart Records" proved to be the best of all. At 1st of February 2001 we agreed in a contract, hoping to have an advantageous and successful future cooperation. In April 2001 we have made the album re-mixed in the RS29 studio in Waalwijk, the Netherlands, with the help of the engineer, Stephen van Haestregt. He gave the final form to the album.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sunseth+Sphere">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.