Supafly Inc

    * WHO IS SUPAFLY Inc?


Supafly Inc is Panos Liassi(AKA Mister P), and Andrew Tumi(AKA One). Supafly’s line-up and direction has evolved over the years, but the core spirit and beliefs have remained intact. “Music is why we are. The will to affect you in a positive way with music is why we will.

Mister P and One met through an ad in the Loot, when Mister P was looking for a vocalist. They formed Supafly Inc after working together for three years. When Mister P decided to move to Australia, they continued to work on music and develop live Supafly Inc shows. One hyped up the crowd, while Mister P DJ’d. That’s the Supafly Inc style - to make people feel something and live for the moment.

    * WHAT DO WE DO?


Supafly is all about using the energy and power of music to affect people in a positive way. We do this with our records, our productions, Dj’ing and live performances. Musically we’re a complete mix-up. As long as we’re feeling it, we’ll release it for people to feel it too.

As DJs we’re versatile and adaptable. We keep it strictly funky and sexy, while trying to break down musical boundaries. Why can’t we play a Hip Hop tune or a funk rear groove tune in a funky house set? If it fits, and sounds right, we’ll play that shit. On the flip side, why can’t we play a good funky house record in an RnB/ hip-hop set? We read crowds for dinner, and we give them what they want. Is that a crime?

    * A BIT ABOUT US


Andrew grew up with Jackson 5, Stevie Wonder, The Supremes, Peter Tosh, Bob Marley, Alpha Blondy, Miriam Mackeba, The Police, KISS and the list goes on. He loves singing, drumming beats and writing songs. We call him the ‘crazy one’ from South London. Hip-hop, reggae, and music sex is his thang.

Mister P is the vinyl/Music junkie and the has lived in too many places to mention. When people ask where he’s from, it becomes a difficult question to answer. Born in north London, as a child he ended up in New Zealand, Australia, Cyprus, and then back to London. From hip hop, funk, Soul 2 Soul, acid house, Massive Attack to reggae sound-wave to the Prodigy, drum and bass, jungle, 2 step, speed garage and soulful house, Mister P has been through all of them and loves them all.


THE FLY. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Supafly">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.