Superorganism is an indie pop band, formed in early 2017 and originating in London. The group consists of eight members, including lead vocalist Orono Noguchi, alongside Emily, Harry, Tucan, Robert Strange, Ruby, B, and Seoul.
Their self-titled debut album, Superorganism, was released on 2 March 2018 through Domino Recording Company and Hostess Entertainment.

Mark David Turner (Emily), Christopher Young (Harry), Timothy "Tim" Shann (Tucan), and Blair Everson (Robert Strange) formed The Eversons, an indie band, in 2011, still active by the time of Superorganism's formation. All group members contributed vocals, while Emily, Harry, and Robert Strange contributed guitar; Tucan and Robert Strange contributed bass; Tucan contributed drums; and Emily played the saxophone. After Superorganism's formation, new roles were adapted, with Emily contributing synths and Robert Strange solely contributing visual arts and staging.

Orono Noguchi, a high school student from Maine, first discovered The Eversons via her YouTube recommendations, thereafter becoming a fan of the group. During a 2015 summer trip to Japan, her country of origin, Noguchi found The Eversons to be performing a gig nearby and attended. It was there and then that the group became friends, bonding over their shared interest of internet memes. Their friendship was maintained online, the group often using Skype as a means of communication.

After discovering Noguchi could sing, the group invited her to add lyrics and vocals to a demo they had been working on for a new project at the beginning of 2017. The project came to be Superorganism's first single "Something For Your M.I.N.D.", which was later featured on the soundtrack of FIFA 18.

Having graduated from John Bapst Memorial High School in June, seventeen-year-old Noguchi was accepted into the group, its members being significantly older. "Ever since I was little I had two big goals," says Noguchi, "One of them was to be a musician or an artist of some sort, and the other was to go to college in the States. That’s why I made the decision to go to Maine by myself when I was fourteen." In regard to college, she said, "[Joining Superorganism] was a really big decision but you don’t get to decide when opportunities come. So I'll do this, and I can go to college any time I want."

Additionally, female singers from New Zealand, Ruby and B, would go on to join the group in their musical collaborations. While Ruby and B are known for their roles as background singers, they are also capable of playing instruments. For instance, Ruby is competent on the strings. With the band growing in size, it was decided that Superorganism would relocate to London to create music together. As of late 2017, seven out of eight band members live together in a large terraced house in East End that doubles up as a live-in, 24-hour studio.

The eighth and final member to join, South Korean background vocalist Soul, is the only member to live separately from the group, residing in Sydney, Australia. An enlarged image of Soul's face often takes his place in group photographs. Going by the pseudonym "CHI", Soul has also released material to a Bandcamp account of his own, playing the guitar and keyboard himself.

In June 2018, Superorganism covered Utada Hikaru's "Phakchi no Uta" (パクチーの唄, "Coriander Song") as promotion for the release of her album Hatsukoi (2018).

The group consists of international members from Lancashire, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand, with ages ranging from seventeen to thirty-two. They create original internet-age electronically-tinged indie pop music.

Describing the creation of Superorganism's songs, Orono Noguchi says, "It usually starts with us listening to music and talking about music, art, and all kinds of stuff in the kitchen. Then, one of us would come up with a very basic idea for a song. We'd then send the file back and forth among the group and add on some random ideas that we have. We'd keep working on it until we have a final product."

"We've got the guy making the videos downstairs, mixing in the other room, [and] singing going on [elsewhere]," Harry says in regards to their live-in studio. "We've created this kind of warped version of a pop production house."

Members:

Orono Noguchi,also known as "OJ" – vocals, writing, painting
Emily (Mark David Turner) – writing, production, synths
Harry (Christopher Young) – writing, production, guitar
Tucan, or Dr. Tucan Taylor Michaels (Timothy "Tim" Shann) – writing, production, mixing, drums
Robert Strange (Blair Everson) – visual arts, staging
Ruby – background vocals, background dancing, background musician
B – background vocals, background dancing, background musician
Soul – background vocals, background dancing, background musician <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Superorganism">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.