There are several bands under this name.

1. Supernaut is British '70s Heavy/Psych/Doom metal band who had a promised deal with Vertigo Records in 1974, but Vertigo refused because they were too heavy. They recorded one album that year, which wasn't released until 1999.

2. Supernaut were an Australian glam/punk rock band from Perth, Australia formed in 1974 and disbanded in 1980. Formed in 1974 in Perth, Western Australia, Supernaut (originally named Moby Dick) had a short but successful career which yielded two straight top twenty singles (including a number one hit) and gold album status for their self titled debut album.

Supernaut were quickly signed up by Polydor after a recommendation from Ian "Molly" Meldrum (who produced their debut album) and burst on to the Australian charts with a number one hit in July, 1976 with "I Like It Both Ways". A follow up hit came in November, 1976 with "Too Hot To Touch", which reached number 19, from their self-titled album Supernaut.

In 1978 Supernaut relocated to Sydney and shortened their name, their hair and changed their attitude. They opted for punk/new wave garage style and became "The Nauts". They released an album (produced by Robie Porter) under that name in 1978. The album was widely acclaimed by critics but sales weren't forthcoming and they disbanded in 1980.

3. Supernaut from Belgrade, Serbia was formed in 1992 by Srđan Đile Marković an underground poet & painter.
Supernaut quickly gained reputation of "the most non commercial band in the town".
Debut album "Budućnost sada" (Zvono records, 1993) was a proto industrial experiment with dose of nostalgia from the acid rock bands from the 60's. (fror example, 13th Floor, Elevators)

Their live album "Live in Zombie Town" (Urbazona Trotorok), portrays the bands live intensity with their minimalistic sound of rhythm machine + vocals & bass. (new bass player Saša Radić joins the band)
Miodrag Stojanović Cheza (rhythm machine) leaves the band after the live album, and Supernaut for the time being, becomes a theatre group troop for Sonja Savić, and participates on many alter-theater festivals. With Sonja they filmed abstract movies: "Supernaut", "Superstvarnost" & "Play", they were presented at London's Tate gallery.

Because of their radical vision of techno-disco lobotomy of the 90's, they've played only at Belgrade's smaller night clubs, until Supernaut released their first "hit song", psychobilly hymn "Tata Rolingstound" on their third album "Niže nego ljudski".
Band expanded their sound with electric guitar, insisting on  a cliché fusion of rock'n'roll & electronics.
Đile in his interviews remarks that Belgrade's industrial scene was dead even before it realised it's own potential.

Fourth album "Raj na nebu, pakao na zemlji" (2000) will be rembered by the hit song "Model" and short adventure with female duet on the remade version of  "Because You Are Mine".
Supernaut wanishes from the musical scene in 21st century, until they reformed in their last inacrnation of Đile - programming, vocals, guitars & Saša Radić - bass, drum machine.
On the verge between ultra minimalistic hard rock, non music & industrial, Supernaut even now justifies their status of  non compromising anti commercialists, but this time they make a contract with Automatik Records. Their fifth album "Eli" was released in spring of 2005. Musically closer to their fourth release, album was promoted with two videos, "Strast" & "Oh mili (Neupokojeni)".
Their new record "6" should be released in 2009. and it will contain 10 songs. Songs were recorded & produced at Master Blaster Studio, by the late Goran Živković Žika.

http://www.myspace.com/supernautbelgrade

4.  A croatian band from Pula. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Supernaut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.