There are three known artists/bands as 'Supernatural' : Supernatural - MC ; Supernatural - pop band; Supernatural - avant-garde noise duo; Supernatural - Christian rock band from Bogotá (Colombia). 

Supernatural (the MC) is known for his incredible freestyle skills, raised from Indiana, and lives today in NYC. His first battles with Juice Crew member Craig G are infamous to his fans, and as seen on 'Freestyle : The Art of Rhyme', Supernat's story and awesome performance has been documented. He has released two albums, The Lost Freestyle Files (March 25, 2003) S.P.I.T. (November 15, 2005).

Supernatural (the Swedish pop group) formed in 2002 on the Television program Popstars. The group split after a short while and doesn't exist today. The boy members Robert Skowronski and Sebastian Zelle later started a new group 2005 called Natural Ex together with some from Excellence. But that didn't last long and these two guys continued to work together and is currently in a dance group with another girl, calling themselves NEXX. During 2008 they had a huge hit in the eastern europe with their first single "Syncronize Lips". In beginning of 2009, NEXX debut album got released.

Supernatural (the avant-garde noise duo) consists of guitar improvisations between Bunsho Nishikawa and Tim Olive.  Because of a rather unfortunate incident involving album art, they are often mistakinly refered to as Supernatural Hot Rug and Not Used.  In reality, Hot Rug and Not Used is the album name. 

Supernatural, the Christian rock band from Bogotá (Colombia) is composed by Jennifer Barreto (voice), Stephanie Ávila (voice), Juan Pablo Molano (acoustic guitar), Lucas Peña (electric guitar), Jeison Cubillos (electric guitar), Javier García (voice), Diego Chávez (bass), Hernán Restrepo (keyboard) and David Bermúdez (drums). Their style can be compared to Hillsong, Big Daddy Weave, FFH, Jars of Clay, with elements of rock, funk and pop.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Supernatural">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.