Superpowerless is 20 year old electro artist Oliver Hindle from
Leeds (England). In Oliver’s own words, Superpowerless is ‘Game Boy-fueled adventure-core’ but is probably easier to describe as video-game influenced electro-pop with pop punk guitar.

He started out playing drums for a number of small high school pop-punk bands, which never got to gigging stage. He then learned guitar and started writing solo songs while playing in bands with friends. Oliver was then introduced to electronic music which would influence his musical direction. “After hearing the Postal Service, I started listening to electronic bands like Depeche Mode, Adult, and Motion City Soundtrack. I decided it was something I wanted to have a go at, so I bought a synth off eBay and started putting some songs together.”

After some minor live success and a mention in NME with electronic/rock band ‘Spacebars.Broken’ (“they called us ‘a ferocious Shitdisco’, which hopefully was referring to the band Shitdisco and not a particularly bad disco”), Oliver started writing his own songs using custom software for the Game Boy under the name of Superpowerless.

A year later and with a growing internet following, Superpowerless entered the live scene, with an ever-changing line up of friends. “I currently gig with live band members Steve Brunton and Michael Slevin - I don't think it'll be changing much anytime soon though! My songs are electronic but I've always written them from a sort of pop punk/rock background so the layout and the lyrics meant that we could perform as a rock band with other bands rather than at electronic nights”. Superpowerless played their first gig on May 4th 2008 and has kept a record of every gig he played on his website (www.superpowerless.co.uk). Recently they have added a projector to their live set which they use to project clips of video games on stage while they perform. 

After winning the Vodafone/MTV Fast Track competition, Superpowerless re-recorded Wasted My Time with renowned producer and DJ, Andy Chatterley. Andy has been Grammy nominated as part of The Buick Project, and played keyboard and Synths on Kanye West’s Graduation album, most notably on the hit single Stronger.

Also, as part of the Vodafone prize, Superpowerless shot a music video for Wasted My Time with director Luc Janin, who has previously directed promos for Stereophonics, The Fratellis, Boy Kill Boy and Lethal Bizzle. The promo plays on Superpowerless’ heavy influence on computer game sounds and subject matter,and was aired on MTV throughout the week commencing 23rd March 2009. 

Superpowerless also shot a music video for Robots Need Love Too directed by Colin Odd and a group of his friends. It involved dressing up as robots using cardboard boxes and running around Leeds, dancing, getting kicked out of shops and generally causing trouble.

A 3rd Music Video is planned to be recorded in the last weekend of April as part of the Our City, Our Music project and a 4th at some point in May. An album is currently being worked on for release later in the year. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Superpowerless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.