SUPREME CARNAGE is a Death Metal band from Münster (NRW), Germany and play in the Old School vein with prime influences stemming from  GOREFEST, ENTOMBED, BOLT THROWER, ASPHYX and BLOODBATH.

SUPREME CARNAGE stand alone atop the European Death Metal mountain wielding crushingly heavy riffs, razor sharp hooks, and powerful vocals capable of shattering the Tectonic Plates with Teutonic tenacity. With an ear for the old school and a modern approach, SUPREME CARNAGE are re-writing the rules on brutality while paying respect to the genre’s traditions. Fans of Bolt Thrower and Asphyx will lose their senses over the bludgeoning steadiness of double bass cannon drumming and riffs that, to put it bluntly, make you want to rearrange someone’s jaw bone.

The band was founded 2010 and release the first E.P. „A masterpiece of execution“ in 2011. Two years later the self-produced debut album, “Quartering The Doomed”, was released to rave reviews.

In July of 2015, the band recorded 9 songs at the Soundlodge Studio (God Dethroned, Sinister, Suicidal Angels) under the direction of Jörg Uken. The record, entitled “SENTENCED BY THE CROSS“, follows a conceptual context surrounding the infamous “Ordeals“. “Trial by ordeal” was an ancient judicial practice by which the guilt or innocence of the accused was determined by subjecting them to an unpleasant, usually dangerous experience. The record was released via Bret Hard Records in Europe and Redefining Darkness Records in USA & Canada.

2018 marks the next step in the band’s history. In November 2017 the band entered the Soundlodge Studios once again to record 9 Songs of old school death Metal combining american heaviness and european melodies to a new level.


Press:

“Heavy as shit, usually mid-paced death metal with a classic sound that will have you manning your tank in search of where next to conquer…these soldiers of mighty fistpumping death will have you hooked in no time.” – Trevor Strnad, (Black Dahlia Murder, Columnist for Metal Injection)
   
“Whether you are just beginning to become a fan of Death Metal or you’re already a big fan of bands like BOLT THROWER, HYPOCRISY, and DISMEMBER, I can’t give a higher recommendation to SUPREME CARNAGE as a good Death Metal band.” - Metal-Temple (9 / 10)


SUPREME CARNAGE is:
Acker – Guitars
Nova – Guitars
Mirko – Drums
Jorge – Vocals
Jones – Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Supreme+Carnage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.