Formerly known as Mortuary, they changed their name to Supreme Lord in 1995.

In 1991, in Zielona Gora, Mortuary band came into being on Reyash's initiative. The band adhered to Death Metal tradition. The aim of existing of the band was, and still is playing Death Metal for one's own pleasure, regardless of trends prevailing in Metal music. About 15 musicians were in the band and it doesn't make any sense to write about all of them, because probably nobody's interested in it; at any rate, the pillar of the band were Reyash – bass guitar, vocals and Vitold – drums.

Till 1995 Mortuary played lots of marvellous concerts around former Zielona Gora district and then the band decided to record its first official demo in “professional studio”, to come into existence in so-called “polish metal underground”. And it happened, the demo tape “At the Black Moon Night” came to exist, which helped to the Mortuary band to show itself to wider audience. Splendid reception of dark and brutal music of Mortuary was noticeable in “underground zins” in the form of high reviews or interviews. 1996 – change of the name of the band for the sake of such called band, which has been existing for longer time, to SUPREME LORD. So named band goes to Warsaw (first so big performance), where was invited by Cezar within the confines of Christ Agony tour. Supreme Lord defends itself perfectly on the stage and is invited again to the capital for I edition of Vox Mortiis Festival, where it has a chance to play with many great polish bands. The time came for repeated strike and recording next demo. The same studio (for lack of others) and demo 96' “Dark Heresies”...

Years 1997-1999 was hard period for Supreme Lord. Arguments and shuffles in the band lead to suspend activity of S.L. Reyash records vocals for Profanum (demo + two albums), and with Vitoldo, they concentrate on their new project Witchmaster established with Profanum's guitarist – Kali.

2000-2001 is the comeback of SUPREME LORD to the polish stage and recording of demo “Ritual Roting” at new line up: Reyash – bass,/vocals, Zlo665 – drums, Helel – guitars. First performance in new line up is performance at DARKZONE FESTIVAL, at Vader's side, then single concerts with Hate, Yattering. In August the band records demo(n) 2000 - “Metal Forever” and creates its own tone. At the end of September it goes for mini-tour APOCALYPSE TOUR 2000 with Christ Agony and Domain (about 8 shows) . Second guitarist comes to the band – Asteck, with who Supreme Lord, in 4 person line up, plays few shows and prepares material for the first album. Material is already prepared for recording. Unexpectedly Asteck leaves the band (problems in personal life) and it's all for nothing. Meanwhile Reyash and Vitold get proposal of playing in Christ Agony from Cezar, which they accede to for lack of activities. Cezar comes to Zielona Góra for few attempts and behind the facade of Christ Agony they play about 20 cool shows. Preparations for recording Christ Agony's album still last.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Supreme+Lord">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.