Banská Bystrica, Slovakia (1993 – present)

The band SURGICAL DISSECTION (ex-DISSECTION) was origin in September 1993 and consisted of this members: Robo Kmeť – vocals, Ján Čief – guitar, Michal Molnár – drums, Ján Jambrich - bass guitar, Martin Majer – guitar. From the start is possible to compare the music of the band to classic death metal with some components of grindcore. The band recorded the first official demo “Dehumanized” in March 1997. It was recorded in March 22. – 23. 1997 in PEBA studio in Sliač. The demo contains intro + 6 songs (about 20 minutes). The members of the band marked the style as so called Grinding Brutal Core. 250 pieces of this demo was released and sent to members of Czech and Slovak underground scene. Some exemplars were sent abroad. The reactions of the demo were superlative and the band had some concerts in Slovakia with old-new guitarist Ján Čief, which came back in autumn 1997.

During the next year the band is performed concerts and prepared new material. It was recorded in Exponent studio in Hlohovec in 1999. The name of the new material was “The Inborn Malignance” and it was released as CD/MC/T-shirt by Slovak underground label EREBOS PRODUCTIONS. The album had many positive reactions from all around the world. Singer Marek Barto left the group in May 2000 because of different views. Hi was replaced in the band by Ivan Mráz at the end of May 2000. His first public performance was on Brutal Assault festival 5 in Blansko, where the American Mortician, Malignancy and Macabre performed too. The band recorded “Promo 2001” (3 tracks) in Moonset studio in June 2001. Publisher influenced the fact, that these 3 tracks are absolutely new. Some pieces ended in some fanzins and the reaction was quite good. The promo was sent to some publishers in Slovakia and Czech republic. The Slovak underground label Immortal Souls Productions gave an indication to publish the next album.

The first official website of the band was created in early 2002. The address was: www.slovanet.sk/surgicaldissection.sk. It is in English language and contains the basic information about the band, biography, lyrics, photographs etc. The new material was recorded in Moonset studio in Šaľa in March 2002. The name of the album is “Absurd Humanism” and it included 8 new tracks + one newly recorded track Impurity from the demo “Dehumanized”. Martin Kmeť from the Absint studio made mastering of this track in Banská Bystrica in February 2003. The album “Absurd Humanism” should to be published by the Slovak label Immortal Souls Productions in year 2002, but the co-operation between the band and label aborted before summer 2002. There were no activities connected with the record since that time. The band remained without a publisher and they decided to publish CD at their own costs.

Since March 2003 the new website of SURGICAL DISSECTION exists on address: www.surgicaldissection.sk, which is in the Slovak and English version with many new photographs and samples of all tracks of SURGICAL DISSECTION on MP3. Vláďa Prokoš from the band FLESHLESS and his company NICE TO EAT YOU RECORDS offered the band a possibility to publish the album “Absurd Humanism” in April 2003. So album published by NICE TO EAT YOU RECORDS in May 2003.

During the year 2003, after the issuing of the album “Absurd Humanism”, the band started more performances at the concerts, mainly in Germany and Czech Republic. The band also performed at famous summer festivals as Brutal Assault, Svět nerezové oceli etc. Those activities were possible mainly thanks to NICE TO EAT YOU RECORDS, which took great care of the album “Absurd Humanism”. The whole edition of “Absurd Humanism” was totally sold out and distributed to the whole world during one year. At the end of 2003 the NICE TO EAT YOU RECORDS offered the band SURGICAL DISSECTION to participate in SENSUAL IMMITATION TOUR 2004 of the bands Fleshless, Deception, Gomorrha, as a substitution of the band Gomorrha, which recalled their participation. SUGICAL DISSECTION accepted the offer without hesitation. At the end the bands Fleshless, Surgical Dissection and Laniena Mentis performed, cause also Polish Deception recalled their participation. The tour started with the first concert on April 16 in German town Löbau, following by the concerts in Holland Rotterdam, Belgian Gent, Italian towns Modena and Brescia, in Swiss Zofingen and it ended by the last concert on April 24 in small German town Wachenroth. During two years and concerts the band started to prepare new album with new tracks.

Co-operation of SURGICAL DISSECTION and NICE TO EAT YOU RECORDS stands and the band obtained an offer to publish the next album. It will be in September 2005 in Moravian studio Shaark. New album named “Disgust” will be issued in the mid of October 2005 by the NICE TO EAT YOU RECORDS. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Surgical+Dissection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.