There are more Artists with this Name:

1) Surgery (New York) was a scummy, no-holds-barred, blues-drenched post-hardcore band from Manhattan's lower east side that included Sean McDonnell (vocals), Scott Kleber (guitar), John Lachapelle (bass), and John Leamy (drums). Signed to the noisy Amphetamine Reptile label, the band fit right in and made their full-length debut in 1991 with Nationwide. The Trim, 9th Ward High Roller EP followed two years later. They then became part of the feeding frenzy that occurred in the wake of the major label signings of Nirvana and Helmet, and they made the hop to the WEA-distributed Atlantic for 1994's Shimmer. The closest the band got to notoriety in the mainstream sense was when MTV's 120 Minutes program played that album's "Off the A-List" a couple times (not that the band cared). On January 18, 1995, McDonnell passed away, the victim of complications from asthma. Saddened by their loss, the remaining members of the band decided to quit.
http://www.allmusic.com/cg/amg.dll?p=amg&sql=11:g9fwxqe5ld0e

2) Surgery were born in 2000 thanks to Daniele Coccia and Matteo Ribichini. In 2001 they record Made in Chaos, a self-produced CD tending to the experimental industrial music. In 2002 Dario Casadei, guitar player, and Cristina Badaracco, singer, join the band. With this new formation they record Coma Catalogue and their music radically changes, becoming more direct and hardcore. In the same year they start a long live activity, with very provoking and theatrical performances, during which the band comes on stage wearing post-atomic and horror-style masks and costumes. In 2004 the Surgery record Verso Nega, a self-produced CD completely sung in Italian and tending to the Italian wave music of the 80s, but with some dreadful and frenetic tones. In 2005 Matteo Castaldi, dj, and Fulvio Liviabella, performer, join the band. In the live performances, the Band appears as a phenomenon with a dangerous and revolutionary attitude, their lyrics express with violence and rage what they have observed in Italy during the last years. In october 2007 they presents the first label-produced cd
"L’altra Educazione"(The other Education)including a collaboration with Donatella Rettore. 

3) Death metal band from France, formed in 2003. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Surgery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.