Surgeon is the pseudonym of Anthony Child, an English electronic musician and DJ. Child releases music on his own labels Counterbalance and Dynamic Tension. Established imprints, such as Tresor, Soma, and Harthouse, have also released Surgeon's original material and remixes. He has also been recognized as one of the first wave of DJs to use Ableton Live and Final Scratch to supplement his DJ sets.
Child grew up in Kislingbury, a village in Northamptonshire. In 1989, he moved to Birmingham to study audio-visual design, played in a jazz/rock/fusion band called Blim, and learned to DJ from friend Paul Damage. At that time, there were no Techno clubs in Birmingham so he and his friends started House of God, and by 1991 he was DJing there regularly. In 1994, he released his eponymous debut EP on Downwards Records.
Surgeon's musical style is characterised by his incorporation of the more cinematic and left field aspects of his musical background into his club-based material. 
Child is also known for several significant artist collaborations in his career. These include tonal experiments with Mick Harris, British Murder Boys with Regis, and most recently with Ben Sims as Frequency 7.
Since exploding onto the techno scene in 1995, with the now-classic 'Surgeon EP', DJ and producer Anthony Child has been remoulding his area of contemporary techno. His early releases on Downwards caused a ripple of excitement through the techno cognoscenti of the time, leading to more widespread exposure via remix work for Dave Clarke and inclusion on Jeff Mills seminal 'Live At the Liquid Rooms CD'. Further output on Downwards, such as the 'Pet 2000 EP' (containing the familiar growl of 'Badger Bite'), along with releases by label mates Regis, Female and Portion Reform, helped to place Birmingham boldly on the techno map.

There are other artists with the same name:

2.) Power Metal band from Dorsten, Germany.

Lineup:Frank Graffstedt - Vocals, Guitars (Justice (Ger))
Markus Boehm - Guitars
Peter Damm - Bass (Xxaron)
Additional (session) Drums : Jörg Michael (Rage (Ger), Saxon, Running Wild, Stratovarius, Grave Digger, Mekong Delta, Unleashed Power, Tom Angelripper, House of Spirits, Kaledon, Glenmore, Beto Vázquez Infinity, Axel Rudi Pell, Der Riß, Headhunter (Ger), Soulslide, Avenger (Ger), X-Mas Project, V2)

6.) Post/progressive rock SURGEON are a 4-piece instrumental group from St. John's, Newfoundland, Canada. Combining intricate guitar wizardry with a rock solid rhythm section, SURGEON will take the listener through an epic, moody, multi-layered, groove-laden journey that is often aggressive and always fun. 
January 1, 2012 - SURGEON release their debut EP as a free/pay what you can download, now available at: http://surgeonmusic.bandcamp.com
SURGEON are Steve Cowan - Andrew Wicks - Josh Ward - Phil Maloney <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Surgeon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.