There are multiple artists named Surrounded:
1. An indie rock band from Växjö, Sweden
2. A three piece metalcore band from London, England

1. An indie rock band from Växjö, Sweden
Surrounded is an indie rock band from Växjö, Sweden, formed in 2000.

Masters of the celestial epic, SURROUNDED, creates atmospheres of fragile beauty by blending surrealist lyrics, mournful melodies, orchestral flourishes and spacey experimentalism with a subtle, cinematic sway from lo-fi to hi-fi. 

Encompassing a strangely beautiful rainbow of sound and emotion that twinkles beneath layers of cello, mellotron, radio chatter and synthesizers, their debut SAFETY IN NUMBERS envelopes the listener with an entrancing collection of songs that range from the innocent to the insane, the troubled to the tender, the sweet to the sad.  
 
Surrounded emerged with their debut album ‘SAFETY IN NUMBERS’ following a yearlong recording session deep in Swedish forests eight years ago. Now signed to One Little Indian with superb new record ‘The Nautilus Years’ receiving glowing reports, the band return to the UK for a second set of shows the week beginning April 7th.

Marten Rydell (vocals, guitar)
Marcus Knutsson (guitar) 
Tom Malmros (bass) 
Johannes Linder (drums) 
Erik Gustafsson (keys) 

2. A metalcore band from London, England
Founded in London in late 2020 by Australian expat Josh Spurling. Surrounded came about from the love of hard hitting breakdowns and huge soaring choruses, they combine elements of pop punk and metalcore. Josh spent years as a DJ in the music scene, playing other peoples music for a living but always working on his own music behind the scenes. The band consists of: Josh Spurling (Guitar), Elvis Q (Drums/backing vocals), and Keegan Israel (Lead vocals).

Tastemakers in the metalcore scene have already begun to take notice of Surrounded. Underground music and culture website Havoc Underground has written articles for each of their releases and Spotify has included them on their official "Metal UK" playlist alongside the worlds biggest metalcore acts.

Surrounded's music touches on personal issues and struggles which come through in the passion and heaviness in the music. With their debut single in Jan 2021 and an EP to follow in February 2022 , Surrounded will bring their fun and heavy sound to a live setting in the near future, with shows across Europe. Things are just getting started for the up and coming metalcore outfit. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Surrounded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.