In 2006 Sami Jämsén of infamous Studio Perkele (Deathchain, Barathrum) took a break from studio work and channeled his producer's anger to found Survivors Zero. A band thats main goal is to deliver quality brutal modern death metal with a melodic edge. After long and tedious demoing sessions and song structuring for a full year the Survivors Zero style was starting to take shape musically.

Then in 2007 a phone call to unexpecting Tommi “Rotten” Virranta (ex-Deathchain) secured him as lead singer and main lyricist. The guys hooked up instantly with exact same vision and musical direction. Having worked together many times previously the synergy was there right from the start. After this the ball started rolling. Quickly Tapio Wilska (ex-Finntroll) joined the ranks and to take on the lead guitars JV Hintikka (Machine Men) enrolled. Drumming battery duties were taken by Reima Kellokoski (Impaled Nazarene).

2008 the guys rushed into Jive Studio in Helsinki to record drum tracks with Jukka Varmo. Few weeks later in Studio Perkele all the other tracks were hammered down. Jonas Kjellgren, owner of Black Lounge Studio (The Absence, Carnal Forge) in Sweden and of Scar Symmetry fame mixed Survivors Zeros first official “demotape” codenamed “Extinction”. It was unleashed with 2 killer songs (Embrace the Inferno & Fortress of Lies) and sonic supremacy delivered by Kjellgren.

In october 2008 lead guitarist J-V Hintikka was replaced by another talented shredder Jani Luttinen also known from the ranks of The Scourger.

Late 2008 Survivors Zero secured a recording deal with Cobra Records (with labelmates Sotajumala & Deathchain) and united again with Jonas Kjellgren for a full album. Entitled "CMXCIX" the album will be done & finished during february - march 2009. Recording begins 02.02.09 at Seawolf Studios, Finland. Mixing will then be done with Jonas Kjellgren at Black Lounge Studio, Sweden and mastering with Pelle Henricsson at Tonteknik Recording, Sweden.


BAND LINE-UP:

Tommi "Rotten" Virranta - vocals
Jani Luttinen - lead guitars
Sami Jämsen - guitars
Tapio Wilska - bass
Seppo Tarvainen - drums

FORMER MEMBERS:

J-V Hinkka - Guitars
Reima Kellokoski - Drums

DISCOGRAPHY:

Extinction (demo 2008)
Reclaim My Heritage (CDS 2009)
CMXCIX (CD 2009) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Survivors+Zero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.