There are several artists with that name:

1) Hunter Hunt-Hendrix, Greg Smith, and Jeff Bobula. Survival is an album of dark and meditative heavy rock.

2) A Straight Edge Hardcore band from Manchester.  FFO: Righteous Jams, Wrong Side, Mental, Rotting Out.... Demo released 2011.

http://survivalmhc.bandcamp.com/

3) Steve Kielty has been involved in both production and engineering since the inception of drum & bass back in 1993/94 when he kicked off his musical career as a studio engineer. Around this time he paired up with Roy McCabe under the guises of Akustic Research and Banaczech and released on the prolific Vinyl Addiction and Partisan Recordings between 1995 and 2003. Having taken a break from drum & bass to work as studio manager for London's West Row Studios, Steve re-emerged in 2005 under the alias Survival.

With a plethora of well received releases on labels including Creative Source, Exit Records, DNAudio, Quarantine, Critical and Shogun, Survival’s deep, organic sound has rapidly earned him a reputation as one of the true craftsmen of modern drum & bass.

Collaborations with D-Bridge, Break, Silent Witness, Fierce, Sabre and Alix Perez clearly illustrate the respect he commands from his peers. With his newly launched Audio Tactics label providing a focused outlet for his productions and a highly anticipated debut album recently completed for dBridge's Exit Records, his fan base is expanding as rapidly as his discography.

4) A Progressive / Symphonic Rock band from The Netherlands, founded in 1981 by Jack Langevelt, see also SurvivalRock and Jack Langevelt's Survival.
Crusader (released by Musea in October 2008)

5) A Mexican psychedelic group from the 60’s and 70’s.

6) A Hardcore band hailing from Australia's Gold Coast. Download the demo for free here : 
http://www.mediafire.com/?atrcealzf8e42v9

7) A female fronted three piece Cold Wave band from New York. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Survival">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.