Suspiria may refer to:
1) A darkwave/gothic rock band from United Kingdom (1993-1998).
2) A post-hardcore band from Japan.
3) A thrash metal/death metal band from France (Split-up).
4) A death metal/doom metal band from Germany (Split-up).
5) A death metal band from Illinois, United States (Split-up).
6) An alternative metal band from Vicenza, Italy (2003-present).
7) Mistagged Susperia.
8) A psytrance project from Lemesos, Cyprus.
9)  A noise/techno project from Siberia .


1) Suspiria came out of the UK in the 90's and were one of the many second wave gothic rock acts that did well.  With a mixture of old school gothic rock and modern electro elements the band managed to become slightly well known at the clubs. The songs 'Allegedly Dancefloor Tragedy' and 'Assassin Soul' were the two songs they were most known for.

Before the 90's wrapped up the band split apart and both members went in different directions.  Matthew the vocalist supposedly went on to do his own drums and bass project and Mark went on to form Intra-Venus which never really went anywhere...
 
Discography:
1994 - Tragedy (EP)
1995 - The Great and Secret Show
1997 - Drama
1997 - Primitive Attentions
1998 - Dancefloor Tragedy: Best of

2) Suspiria is a Japanese avant-punk\post-hardcore band.

3) Suspiria was a trash metal/death metal band, formed in Marseille, France in 1987.

4) Suspiria was a death metal/doom metal band, formed in Stralsund, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Germany.

5) Suspiria was a death metal band, formed in Crystal Lake, Illinois, United States in 1990.

6) Suspiria is an alternative metal band, formed in Vicenza, Italy in 2003. They released a free EP, "EP 2007".

Official site: www.suspiria-it.com

7) Suspiria is NOT the same as Susperia, a Norwegian thrash metal group.

8) Suspiria is a Cyprus-based psytrance project with a number of releases under several internet labels, primarily in Europe. Official site: www.myspace.com/suspiriaproject <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Suspiria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.