There are two artists with the name Sutekh. 
1. The electronic DJ Sutekh,
2. The metal band Sutekh from the Netherlands.
   http://www.last.fm/music/Mesha+Ne+Sutekh.

1. Since 1997, Sutekh, alias Seth Joshua Horvitz, has released consistently inconsistent electronic music on local and international labels Force Inc./Mille Plateaux, Source, Background, Plug Research, Cytrax/Delay, Tektite, and his own Context. Manipulating computers, samplers, synthesizers, ping pong tables, and found sounds, he has created everything from minimal house and techno to dense, dissonant noise collage. Unable to explain his reasons for making such music, he blankets himself with sarcasm. People often have a difficult time deciding whether or not he is serious.

2.Sutekh (formerly known as Oblivian Nightmare) is a Dutch Death Metal band founded in the summer of 2004 in Tiel. After a few major line-up changes the band came to their final and complete lineup of today, consisting of

David: Guitar 
Maarten: Guitar 
Jasper: Sound-technician (formerly Synth) 
Liewe: Drums 
Boudewijn: Bass 
Wilfred: Vocals 

After playing without a bass player for a long time, they finally completed their lineup in October 2006 when Boudewijn joined the band. It appears to be a big step forward. 

In 2005 the band released their first Demo, called "Memento Mori" with four self-written songs. Because of this Demo the band was able to participate in the bandcontest "De Parel van de Betuwe" and managed to get to the finals. The final was a success. Although the band didn't win the final, they managed to win the prize granted by the audience. This they did for their show, full of energy and enthusiasm. With the money they won, Sutekh decided to record a more professional demo called "Sanctification of Savagery".

With this new MCD in the pocket the band performed at Appelpop 2006 (a festival, organized in Tiel). Besides the large amount of people watching them play, this was one hell of an experience. The show kicked ass! After that, the shows kept coming and coming, and the band grew out to become a 'worldfamous band in the region' (according to the regional newspaper). Playing in the Semi-Finals of the national Metalband-contest "Metal Battle 2007" proved that the band changed from an 'after-school-band' to a band with ambitions and opportunities. 

Now, with their name changed to Sutekh, the band is ready to conquer the Metal-scene and blow your fucking ears to shreds!



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sutekh">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.