There are three artists by the name of Sutra:


1) Instrumental Quintet born in Guadalajara, Mexico in the year 2000, the current line-up is made up of: Gerardo Martinez (keyboard, bass, sequences),
Wallace (bass, Keyboard) Andrés González (Drums, sequences), Andrés Orozco (Guitar, Noises) and Ricardo Morales (Vj) replacing Ix-Electrico.

Sutra's musical bet rests upon the fusion of styles and rythms heard in their begining years -all of its members being music lovers - and in psycodelics which plays an essential role in the combo´s
sound along with the imagery that add majorly in live performances.

Atmospherical and faint landscapes cascading over a solid rythm, momentous passages reminscent of the big screen sound, dosified distortion in epical imaginary stories sprinkled with 
all-free jazz and a surprise facts as special guest.

Years of experience have materialized in 4 recordings. Demo (2001), Intencion (2004), En lo denso (2008), inclusion in two compilations NACE: Nutritiva Compilacion from Eter Music (2005) 
with tracks "Arrecife" and "Aluminio Rojo"; Nine Corners: 9 Bandas, 9 Canciones (2006) with track "Reflejo" with was the precusor of the album of the same name recorded and produced by 
Armando Chong (Cuca, Forseps) at his studio Màquina Sónica with distinguished trumpeter Crish Graddy (The Grassy Knoll).

They have created original music for radio programs "La cuenta regresiva" (2005-2007) and "Genealogías" (2009) both broadcast by XHUG 104.3 FM Radio Universidad
de Guadalajara and for the short films "Las tardes de Luisa" by Sofia Carrillo and "Sonámbulo" by Óscar Alvarado, and the feature film "Otro tipo de música" by Jose
Gutierrez Razura.

Locally they have performed at the Festival Audiovisual Chroma (2003, 2004); Festival Internacional de Cine en Guadalajara (2005); MANIFEST (2005) - sharing stage
with The Faint and The Kills -; Festival Cultural de Mayo at Puerto Vallarta (2005); Festival Mundo Latino (2006) -sharing stage with Tahiti 80 and Stereo Total-; 
Fiesta de la Música (2009); and the official release of the album "Reflejo" at LARVA (Laboratorio de Artes Variedades).
Outside of Mexico they went on tour in Germany and Belgium in 2004 in which the highlight was the Video Festival at the Hamburg Art School directed by 
Wim Wenders.
Currently they are preparing a promotional tour.


That's why I believe they update Sussure's concept of acoustic image, with which they complement their sound (saving visual ideas to the mind): ""this last 
one is not the material sound, a mere physical thing but the psychics of that sound, the representation our senses are witnesses of; that representation is 
sensorial". Having such a complete project you can expect them to work in videoclips. An example of what they can accomplish regarding the marriage between
their music and the materialization of the idea they want the listener to visualize is "Aluminio Rojo" a song they illustrated intermingling images in a Dziga Vertov style.

2) A solo project from Leonardo Canneto, the former singer of industrial act Virus 23.
Leonardo's new band, A.M. Pacific, is the band extension of the Sutra project.
As Sutra he recorded 2 records, "Azul" & "Night-time"

3) The newest alias of Ilkka Vekka (Haare). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sutra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.