Svartthron - Kraujo Estetika :

"Kraujo estetika" (Aesthetics of blood) is the fourth official album of Lithuanian project Svartthron which is creating since 2005. Exclusicely lithuanian forces were gathered for recordings of drums and voice for this album. Drums are live in this CD for the first time in the history of the project. The leader of the project, Tomhet, was responsible for guitars, bass and compositions. The final result - very powerful and diverse album of Lithuanian black metal. The theme that unites all the songs - blood. Songs of "Kraujo Estetika" are like separate paintings. In visions and torment great knowledge and understanding comes, which leads to the absolute trumph of the beast. The tracks in the album also sounds like separate entities. From depressive and dark melancholy in gloomy riffs of guitars to all-destroying rhythms of drums and uncontrolable bursts of aggression. The whole musical picture is fulfilled with vocals which one second sounds like shrieking of a beast being slaughtered ant another second that beast attacks you full of rage; it is masterful and commanding or despising. Kommander L. from Lithuanian division, dislocated in Italy was also invited to record one track and he added yet different sound and standpoint to the theme. This album - it's not just enjoying the sounds and consonances of instruments. It is also philosophical discourse towards the very essence of human being, discussing human-animal, which is ruled by his own weaknesses and irresolutions and also external factors such as religion. As opposed to it - human-beast, which breaks off all chains and takes all obstacles to reach his goal. In life or death.


Discography:

Svartthron - Noctiflorious Visions (unreleased)
Svartthron - Obscure Telepathty (released by ISO666 Releases)
Svartthron - Soundtrack To My Solitude (ISO666 Releases)
Svartthron - Into Vacuity (Ripped off by Triple Silence Records)
Svartthron - Bearer of the Crimson Flame (Inferna Profundus Records)
Svartthron - Kraujo Estetika (Inferna Profundus Recoirds)

Current line-up
Tomhet  - Music
Levas (Andaja,Sova,Alkis Isalusiai Ausrai, Budrus) - Vocals
[K] (Argharus) - Drums

Kommander L. (Luctus) Guest appearance on Kraujo Estetika (Kancia. Zinojimas song)
  
MySpace URL: 
http://www.myspace.com/svartthron  
Label website:
http://www.inferna-profundus.net
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Svartthron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.