The Svenia are a gothic-metal band and they formed at the end of 2001 after an idea of Leonardo (vocals) and Hicks (bass guitar), that have already played together in another band. They decided to form a band, whose music had to reach the perfect mix between a sweet melacholic melody and a carrying metal sound and whose lyrics were about the eternal dilemma of Love and Death.

The first line-up was: Leonardo (vocals), Pix (guitars), Hicks (bass guitar), Lord of Illusion (drums), after joined by Simon (keyboards). On May 2002 the Svenia recorded "In The Shadow Of Death In The Shadow Of Love", a four-song live demo. The cd soon met with wide approvals by the most important heavy metal magazines (Metal Shock, Grind Zone, etc.) and the on-line magazines (best demo of the month on www.eutk.net). A change of line-up: Moreno took the place of Pix and Manuel was the new keyboard player. Initially supported by Stick.it agency, the Svenia had the chance to play in many important italian festivals and clubs: in Potenza(southern Italy) together with the Children of the Damned, band of Paul di Anno (formely in Iron Maiden); in Fiumicino (Rome) at the Alcatraz club and in Rome at Jailbreak, etc.

After the shooting of "Death is waiting for your heart" video (song from their second demo "Angelical Poison"), the Svenia played some gigs in Sicily and also appeared in a prime-time tv show on the tv channel Antenna Sicilia.
On summer 2003 there were two turning points: 1) the Svenia decided to use the sequencer in their live acts in order to reproduce their typical keyboards sounds faithfully; 2) Dusk is new guitar man.

The current line-up is: Leonardo (vocals), Dusk (guitars), Hicks (bass guitar), Lord of Illusion (drums).
Lately they have signed for a label in Milan. Important Svenia live acts took place at Aquatica and Rainbow Club in Milan, at Masquerade (Piacenza), at Stop Over (Bari), at Alpheus (Rome) etc.
At the same time they have recorded their first official full-lenght album "Black Heart".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Svenia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.