SVEN GALI
Formed 1987, Canada

Members
Dave Wanless (vocals)
Dee Cerniles (guitar)
Andy Frank (guitar)
Shawn Mahar (bass)
Rob MacEachern (drums)

Former members
Gregg Gerson (drums)
Mike Ferguson (drums)

Albums:
1992 Sven Gali
1995 Inwire

History:

Sven Gali were formed in 1987 in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada and started as a cover band. Shortly after, they earned a reputation for their amazing and energetic live shows. They began writing their own material and where quickly signed to BMG Music and started to record their self titled debut album.


Their self titled debut album was a huge Canadian hit. The album was a solid hard rock album that had a similar sound to that of Skid Row. The album included the hits, “Under The Influence”, “Tie Dyed Skies”, “In My Garden”, and the love ballad, “Love Don’t Live Here Anymore” which became a massive hit that still gets played regularly on Canadian radio. They made four music videos, all of which where on regular rotation on Much Music.
The band was also featured in many hard rock magazines that where popular at the time.

The 1993 Juno awards recognized Sven Gali and they where nominated for two awards, “Most Promising Group”, and “Hard Rock Album Of The Year”.

Even with the massive success of their debut album, it was the mid 90’s and with the popularity of grunge music taking over the world, it seemed as though 80’s style hard rock was on the way out.
The band moved to Seattle briefly to re invent their sound and record their follow up album, “In Wire”. In Wire featured all original members with the exception of new drummer, Mike Ferguson. It also featured guest musicians, Chris Thorn of Blind Melon and Candlebox's Kevin Martin and Scott Mercado.

Old Sven Gali fans did not respond well to their change of sound and the new album did not gain a lot of success in the grunge world.

Shortly after the release of In Wire in 1995, the band disbanded.
Before the band broke up, they wrote a third album but it was never released.

On August 11, 2007, Sven Gali reunited and played live for the first time in over 12 years at The Moose N Goose in Thorold Ontario, Canada.
The concert was recorded and is planned to be released on DVD in the near future.

The current whereabouts of the members of Sven Gali:

Dave Wanless is currently living in the Niagara Region where he is an assistant store Manager for The Home Depot. He also sings in The Betty Ford Band.

Andy Frank is working in China.

Shawn Mahar is directing videos and playing with The Forgotten Rebels.

Dee Cerniles is living in Los Angeles where he writes and records music.

Gregg Gerson is now an educator as well as composer of music for TV advertisement and film. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sven+Gali">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.