Scott Strapp-on: Lead Screamz
Gnarl ThrashT: Lick Technician
Gunkie Undiez: Gunkie Undiez
Eatin' Roidz: Jug Analysis

Lyrics:

1. Log Ride - Welcome children, to the Log Ride!
Prepare for the most ab-turd....I mean, absurd ride of your life!!!
Now we will defart....I mean, depart on our journey!!!!
Enjoy the flush....I mean, RUSH!!
HAHAHAHAHAHA

2. Breasticide - You've got pests on your breasts, I don't wanna touch those tits
When the milk comes out it looks like rotten grits
If the skin is peeling (SHIT) Flesh is decomposing (TOO LATE)
Too late for any remedy
You go to the nurse, to get this shit reversed
But she looks at you and says "NO WAY!!!!"

We're gonna need a dose of breasticide
Acid shit that coats your tits and makes them fucking fry

Retrieve the note, fill the prescription
Undress yourself, read the description
"Beware of the side effects, but you're better off dead than
with rotten breasts"

So, this is the decision that the bitch has to make
Should she keep her rotten tits or seal her fucking fate
Looking in the mirror, doesn't like what she sees
Who would wanna look at tits covered in fleas?
Opening the bottle, the toxic substance reeks
The deadly stench fills the air, liquid starts to leak
Without hesitation, she chugs the deadly mess
'Cause what's a girl worth if she doesn't have breasts?

3. Massivkrap - One time, when I was young I got a guitar
My parents bought it for me in the hopes that I'd become a star
I fuckin' grabbed the axe and took it everywhere
Made an appearance with my overgroomed hair

When I look in the mirror, all that I see
Is a fuckin hot dude lookin' back at me
With muscles bulging from every inch of my bod
Without a doubt, I've become my own fucking god

I listened to a band that called themselves Black Metal
I heard the synth, saw the dudes decked out in corpse paint
Don't give a fuck about true, raw emotion
Just wanna play this shit to get fuckin' laid

GIRLS SUCK MY DICK WHILE I PRACTICE MY SHRED

No one can ever reach my level
I'm Jameson, bitch, and I'm the devil
My ego couldn't get, any more inflated
According to a contest, I'm fucking top-rated

GIRLS SUCK MY DICK WHILE I PRACTICE MY SHRED

4. Global Porning - TITZ ON THE T.V.!!!!

And I don't care, everyone's aware that I'm jacking off without a care
I'm not scared when my parents are in the other room, watchin' those titz go boom
My grandparents will be fapping in the tomb

The world is dying, our brains are frying, there's no denying
Porn's taking over, I can't stay sober, my mind is a blur
With all this access to breasts and asses, our world collapses
I solemnly swear, I'm not aware we're experiencing global...
poooOOOOOOORNNNIIIIIINNNGG!!!!!!

In a world devoid of progress
Where porn spreads from the south to the midwest
I will put aside my goals in life
Because I fuckin' wanna look at some breasts

THIS IS NOT DYSTOPIA, THIS IS A EUPHORIA
THIS IS NOT DYSTOPIA, THIS IS A EUPHORIA

Now that porn has taken over, I'm not afraid
You will find me in my room jacking without aid
Put your face under my desk, you will all get sprayed
With no care my dick is out, everything's displayed
Through my sperm you will wade

The world is dying, our brains are frying, there's no denying
Porn's taking over, I can't stay sober, my mind is a blur
With all this access to breasts and asses, our world collapses
I solemnly swear, I'm not aware we're experiencing global...
poooOOOOOOORNNNIIIIIINNNGG!!!!!!

5. I Thrashed So Hard I Ripped Off A Nard - I THRASHED SO HARD I RIPPED OFF A NARD GO!

In the pit, feelin tits
Fuckin love those boobs

My mating ritual ain't for all the dudez

Thrashing hard in the middle of the crowd
Thrash so hard I look like I have downs GO

On the ground my nard lays in a pool of blood
Guess that tonight, I won't be able to nut
I tried to grab her titties but she grabbed my nards instead
Burzum is the best and now you're all dead

"Please not my nutz!" 
"FUCK YOU"

6. Tok-siq Mom-it - Tok-siq Mom-it covered in slime
From head to toe
She vomits on your face just to watch the sludge flow

Oozing on your homework 
It's now an incomplete
She throws you to the ground just to shave her feet

Raging through the house 
All she wants to do
Is kick your ass like Gnarl Thrasht and fuckin' torture you

She's taking your allowance
To fund her master plan
She takes the cash to change her sex and turn into a man

Hiding in the closet 
You're starting to freak out
She bashes down the door and pulls you out

Into the bathroom
You have to clean the toilet
The only problem is that she just took a huge shit

UH!

Tok-siq Mom-it covered in slime
From head to toe
She vomits on your face just to watch the sludge flow (x2)

VOMITS JUST TO WATCH THE SLUDGE FLOW

7. Virulent Taco - A rancid rotten taco oozing, chilling on the ground
Dead rats and cats surround it, make a putrid mound
Savage wolves close in for food, eating from the pile
Suffocation takes its toll while they choke on their bile
This virulent taco killing everyone who dares
The meat is slush it starts to gush, cooked less than medium rare
A man is next to take his turn, it scorches off his dick
Because this fuckin taco belongs to a CHICK!!!!!!

Singing off her foes' wangs with one-second bangs
This woman with an acid vag seems fuckin' strange
Seducing men she strokes their pens she takes them to her house
They wanna sex this bangin bitch until their in her blouse

The smell of her tuna...MAKE YOU WANNA CRY!!!!!
The taste of her relish....MAKE YOU FUKKIN DIE!!!!! 

There's no hope for this fool covered in drool
He lets this bitch with tainted tits treat him like a mule
She pins him down to the ground, going to start a ride
Nearly stunned he grabs a gun which aids his suicide

TOXIC TACO THRASH!!!!

8. Winter Wonder Wastleand - The kids are ready to go outside
Not knowing that they will die
Charging out to play in the show
What a gnarly way that they will go
Toying with their snowmen, the missiles on their way
They won't finish them, heh, what a shame...
Frosty with a frowny face, what a funny sight
The radiation levels will reach a new height

Atomic shit is falling everywhere from the sky
The pleasant playing children won't know that they will die
Winter wonder wasteland, coming from above
The pure white snow will soon be coated in blood

Winter wonder wasteland

Atomic shit is falling everywhere from the sky
The pleasant playing children won't know that they will die
Winter wonder wasteland, coming from above
The pure white snow will soon be coated in blood
Missiles drop and parents scream, children fry
Right before their very eyes, toddlers fry
The toasty tots rise from the frozen bloodied ground
They've become the undead, except they all have downs

Winter wonder wasteland

9. God of the Swamp - Rim jobs in demand the people wanna know
How it feels to tounge that bush, lick it really slow
Hundred dollar ticket to experience the show
Non-refundable, you find out that he didn't mow

RIM JOB GO

RIM JOB 

Sucked in, your face is his
Your mouth, around his hole
His hairs, are coming loose
Reach out, for the noose

Sucked in, your face is his
Your mouth, around his hole
His hairs, are coming loose
Put your neck into the noose

Put your neck into the noose

Rim jobs in demand the people wanna know
How it feels to tounge that bush, lick it really slow
Hundred dollar ticket to experience the show
Non-refundable, you find out that he didn't mow
Your face is sucked in deeper, fuckin smells like a troll
You open your eyes to see a lonesome giant mole
You try to scream for help but there is nothing you can do
Dying slowly, rim job is the last thing that you'll do

RIMJOBRIMJOBRIMJOBRIMJOBRIMJOBRIMJOBRIMJOB

10. Nuclear Whorehead - She likes it best between her breasts
She'll take it anyway
Her want for lust shows off her bust
And she blows guys all day
Her breast exposed, her buttcrack shows 
It's all put on display
But don't get in her pants or else you might just pass away

Her. Warts. Explode like an acid-coated whale
Her. Stench. You better not fuckin inhale
Dis. Ease. Running rampant in her netherworld
Bombs. Drop like the warts of this fuckin smelly girl

She's open for business and she's starting to freak out
Everyone is hearing of her thing that smells like trout
No guy will touch her, not even Eric Stout
Throughout all the halls, the kids hear the trashy shout

Her. Warts. Explode like an acid-coated whale
Her. Stench. You better not fuckin inhale
Dis. Ease. Running rampant in her netherworld
Bombs. Drop like the warts of this fuckin smelly girl

She was a nude-clear whorehead, ah-ha-ha-ha-ha

NUDE. CLEAR. WHORE. HEEEAAAAD.

NUDE. CLEAR. WHORE. HEEEAAAAD.

NUDE. (She likes it best between her breasts)
CLEAR. (But she'll take it anyway)
WHORE. (She lusts, shows off her bust)
HEEEAAAAD. (And she blows guys all day)

11. Swamp Squat - Nording around, in a fuckin' swamp
Feeling a load in your ass
The pressure is building
But you can't hold it in
Swamp squat, just let that shit pass!

SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT

Your shit turns into a swamp monster!!!!

OH!!!!!

SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT SWAMP SQUAT!!!!!!!!!!!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Swamp+Squat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.