Swarm of the Lotus is a sludge metal band from Baltimore, Maryland.

Explosive. Mammoth. Mayhem. The absolutely crushing wall of sound that is SWARM OF THE LOTUS is a force to be reckoned with. Coupled with the band's fiery determination and passion to pursue their art, they can only move forward in a positive direction and have no other plans but to do just that. Since the band's inception in the city of Baltimore in the Fall of 1998, SOTL has come a long way and is still only at the beginning of their budding career. With unbridled potential and so much support behind them, the band is destined to leave their mark very permanently on the metal/rock community. And in fact, has started to already. With the release of their debut album, "When White Becomes Black"(At A Loss Recordings) in January of 2004, followed very soon after in the Spring with a 7" Picture Disc Single(Reptilian Records) featuring artwork by Carlos Batts and 3 exclusive tracks, the band received critical acclaim and has been featured in many different publications as a result. Most notably Metal Maniacs, in which their album was included in the top 10 albums of last year, Terrorizer, BW & BK, Rocksound, and most recently Hit Parader and an article in Revolver magazine, as well as a ton of positive feedback from many other online zines and such. The album also saw praise at the CMJ Music Festival last year in which it debuted in the Top 20 of their Loud Rock/Metal Catergory.

The controlled chaos that is the band's sound has been sculpted over the band's 7 year existence. Since playing their first show in the Summer of 2000, the band has shared the stage with bands such as Converge, Mastodon, Lamb of God, Today is the Day, Unsane, Pig Destroyer, Misery Index, Superjoint Ritual and many more as well as making an appearance on the Relapse Contamination Festival in the summer of 2002 and playing the Emissions From The Monolith Festival in the Spring of 2004 alongside bands such as The Hidden Hand, Pelican, Kylesa, Dove, and St. Vitus. After struggling to find a means of transportation suitable for touring, the band began that journey with their virgin tour in the Spring of 2004 to support their At A Loss Release. After hitting the road and pummeling audiences across the U.S. for six weeks in support of the record, followed by another four week tour in the Fall of the same year, the band has generated the amount of press and general buzz that bands take years to develop.

With the recent signing of the band to Abacus Recordings, SOTL is poised to release their second full-length album and debut for the new label, which they spent much of their time writing for during and in between both of last year's tours. With their devastating mixture of boulder-cracking riffs, subtle musical soundscapes and brandishing an intensely heavy, down-tuned aural assault, the album was Recorded at Godcity Studios in the Fall/Winter of 2004 with Kurt Ballou (Converge). Dually noted, the new record, titled "The Sirens Of Silence," takes the band’s penchant for avalanche-sized cacophony to a whole new level. Mastered by Alan Douches (A Life Once Lost, Burnt By The Sun) the new album is set to be released this summer with massive touring planned throughout the U.S. in support of the record. Armed with the hunger to play, a budding catalog of released material, a new record, and the overwhelming intensity of their live shows, the band is a machine that cannot be stopped. Lookout metallers across the globe, SWARM OF THE LOTUS is here and prepared to crush. LIVE TO DESTROY!!!!

Swarm of the Lotus officially announced their splitting up on October 24, 2006. Their last show was on November 1st. On May 3, 2009 the band officially announced their regrouping.

It was announced on December 19, 2010 that the band was on indefinite hiatus. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Swarm+of+the+Lotus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.