Swarm is a name of, at least, nine bands.

1) a short-lived project by current/former Death Angel members, Mark Osegueda (vocals), Rob Cavestany (guitar) and Andy Galeon (drums)

2) A Warner Beach rock band (formed 1996), first signed to gallo records (1997) & released on the C-weed compilation album. The band is now Hampshire, UK based. Last known line-up: Jason Grimaldi (vocals), Jason Horseler (drums) & Steve Venois (bass).

3) A UK noise pop band, which included Samantha Sprackling (better known as Saffron, of Republica), from 2001. Recordings included "If My Friends Could See Me Now".

4) "Playing in a band is not about sex, drugs and rock n’ roll. It's an art and we take it very seriously. It's our craftsmanship."
Stockholm, Sweden-based trio Swarm consists of Johan (Victims) on bass, Marcus (Disfear) on drums and Uffe (Disfear, ex Entombed) on guitar. Swarm was formed in 2011 with an intention to play slower punk/blues-based music with a hard-core edge.
official bandcamp page.

5) A electro-acoustic music platform from Bratislava. Swarm's first release is EP Ritualogy, independently self-released in january 2013. Ritualogy introduce the sound of band and taste in cross-genre experimentations: post-industrial, surrealism, jazz, electronica, rock, metal, neofolk. Each track is carefully polished and recorded in Swarm's studio, mixed and mastered by the band itself.  Official Swarm page.

6) Five piece prog/tech deathcore from České Budějovice, Czech rep. 
 releases: EP Invasion 2012, single Hopes die last 2013.
The band was founded by drummer Vít & lead guitarist Pat, then they found vocalist Vlastimil, guitarist Marcel and bass player Efem. Marcel quit the band shortly after first recording and Marek took his place. After few months Marek was replaced by Ivan. Now the band is getting ready to play gigs and kik asses
 Facebook page 

7) Grindcore band from Århus, Denmark. Best known from 2013 vinyl split with hardcore punk/thrash band Märesvin.

8) Industrial Electronic artist SWARM (all caps) from Florida, known from collaborations with artists like Varien &  Lucille Croft, as well as support from artists such as Porter Robinson, Black Tiger Sex Machine, Lektrique, & Sullivan King. Recently released his album "Eat Me Alive." 

9) Skramz/Powerviolence band from Bandung, Indonesia. Swarm's early release is EP titled "Menyerbak Asap"  in May 2022 by Husted Records. SWARM is the most recent project from Gauth/ GLARE,  Aillis & Grief members. Delivering angst with a unique language (in Bahasa and in Sundanese sometimes...) and modern skramz sound. Promising one, when there are no similar band like they do in Indonesia, especially in Bandung hardcore punk scene. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Swarm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.