Sweet Savage can refer to two bands:

1:  Sweet Savage is an Irish band that once included Dio, Whitesnake and Def Leppard guitarist Vivian Campbell. Metallica later covered the Sweet Savage song "Killing Time". Sweet Savage recorded an EP with Vivian Campbell, and later recorded the full length albums Killing Time and Rune after Vivian Cambell left the band.Other members included vocalist Rob Cass, vocalist/bassist Raymond Haller, drummer David Bates, and guitarists Trevor Fleming and Ian 'Speedo' Wilson. Guitarist Simon McBride played on the albums Killing Time and Rune. 

Sweet Savage toured with Thin Lizzy on their Renegade tour and supported acts such as Ozzy Osbourne, Wishbone Ash and Motörhead. The band have reformed in 2008 and played a number of major European Festivals not to mention a support slot with Metallica on their summer tour. In 2009 Sweet Savage were confirmed as the support along with Doro for Saxon's Batallions Of Steel World Tour II. During the tour it has been revealed that the band will be releasing their new record Warbird on German label SPV in June 2009. The current lineup of Sweet Savage features all original members with the addition of a new drummer: 

Ray Haller - Bass
Speedo Wilson - Guitar
Marty McCloskey - Drums

Official website: www.sweetsavage.co.uk


American Hair / Glam Metal (Heavy Metal) band originally from Houston, Texas. Later relocated to Los Angeles, California.

2: Sweet Savage was one of Hollywood's elite Sunset Strip bands. Managed by the likes of Riki Rachtman and produced by Vinnie Vincent Invasion and Slaughter bassist Dana Strum, Sweet Savage dominated Los Angeles in the mid 1980's with their Hair / Glam Metal anthems and incredible live performances. Their most iconic songs are "On The Rocks", "Break Away" and "Do Ya". Sweet Savage also opened for the band Poison. Featuring Joey C. Jones, whom would later form Joey C. Jones & The Glory Hounds.  Their music is streamable here as the 'Archives: 1984-1989'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sweet+Savage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.