1. Korea acapella group (please refer: 스윗 소로우)

2. Metal Band
1996 - Sweet Sorrow was formed in fall of 1996 as a heavy metal band by Aljoša Us - bass, Uroš Kejžar - guitar and Sebastjan Pregelj - vocals. After a long search they found themselves a drummer Mitja Radic 1997 - In March of 1997 the band entered a studio and recorded a demo tape that contained 5 tracks. This tape was never released but it was used for their own need. After the recordings Uroš was replaced due to lack of interest. He was replaced by Žiga Hodnik. In winter 1997 band started recordings for their first album For a short period Sweet Sorrow was joined by Urša Kavsek who with her high and clear voice upgraded Sebastijan's singing. 1998 - The recordings finally came to the end in november 1998 and the band decided to name it »Breaking The Silence«. Soon after the recording was done, the band decided to continue without Ursa. At the same time band gained Peter Caric (ex – Scaffold) on the second guitar 1999 - In 1999 the band had their first concert in now legendary club »Hound Dog«. At the end of year the band parted ways with their long time drummer Mitja. A couple of days later they found a replacement in Aleš Berlot. 2000 - The guys entered the Chinatown Studio on July 16th to record the second CD, that was named »On Life and Death«. 2001- On June 24th the second album »On Life and Death« was released. 2002 - In spring Sweet Sorrow entered the studio again – this time to record a song for the first Slovenian metal compilation simply named – »Slovenian metal« The song was titeled »Do Pekla (To Hell)« They shot two videos for their album – »Sanjam (I'm dreaming)« and »Ko Bom Mrtev (When I'm dead)« In the end of 2002 Sebastijan, Žiga and Aleš left the band. 2003 - First recruted member was a fenomenal drummer Peter Gale and only a couple of weeks later came a singer Valentin Bufolin. A month later the band went on Slovenian tour called Slovenian Sudden Strike tour 2004 - In 2004 the band changed the style of music from heavy metal to melodic death metal. In April the band entered the studio again to record their third album. During the recordings the band changed 3 guitar players, so all the guitars are recorded by Peter Caric. Sweet Sorrow performed on the most prestiege metal festival around – Metal Camp along with Danzig, Sepultura, Hypocrisy, Sentenced, Primal Fear…… They had been given an opurtunity to open Dissection and Watain show in Slovenia 2005 Only after a month the guys were joined by the new guitarist Jernej Vrecar - Joco and he actually fitted in perfectly with the fastest learning of the songs and adding his own style in the music Guys went to Metal Camp again – this year with Therion, Dissection, Children of Bodom, Slayer, Yngwie Malmsteen….. After the successful opening for Dissection and Watain in 2004 they were planed to open Deicide show, but their show had to be cancelled. 2006 The band went on Slovenian tour again and played 15 shows. This was the biggest metal tour in Slovenia ever. The full and working lineup was together for a few months and then Bufo hit the band with leaving the band for he got another job and did not have the time to be the full time singer in the band anymore. This time was not the guitar player who had to be replaced. It was the frontman… They begun with searching the right replacement and four months later they found a replacement Jernej Kuzmic – Kuzo who had given the band the feeling that he can fill the singer spot. They had only a few rehearsals and Kuzo was on stage. He did not even know all the lyrics so he improvized a lot of the show. 2007 Sweet Sorrow wins the pre-round of International Live Award in Slovenia so the band had the opurtunity to perform on the Planet Music stage in Wienna. In September Kuzo leaves the band. A new frontman Marko Košmrlj was recruted only few days after. In December they recorded a live DVD »Live At KUD« and single »I Am Pain«. 2008 DVD Live at KUD was released in april. Sweet Sorrow entered studio in February to record their fourth studio album named »1000th Millenium«. During the recordings new guitar player Blaž Loncar replaced Joco. New album was recorded in June and is planned to be released in 2008. Band has played at Metal Mania with Impaled Nazarene, Exodus, Avulsed…. .

A new chapter in the book of Sweet Sorrow is open... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sweet+Sorrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.