There is more than one Switchback on this page.:

1)___ SWITCHBACK, the new high octane quartet from Chicago, Warsaw, NYC and Cologne :

Mars Williams - tenor, alto, soprano, sopranino -saxophones
Waclaw Zimpel - bass, alto, b -clarinets, tarogato
Hilliard Greene - double bass
Klaus Kugel - drums

MARS WILLIAMS is one of the true saxophone players--someone who takes pleasure in the sheer act of blowing the horn. This tremendous enthusiasm is an essential part of his sound, and it comes through each note every time he plays. Whatever the situation, Mars plays exciting music. In many ways he has succeeded in redefining what versatility means to the modern saxophone player. - John Zorn, USA

WACLAW ZIMPEL's name goes straight into the list of European jazzmen that gave new life to clarinet and bass clarinet, continuing Dolphy’s example: Surman, Sclavis, Trovesi, and the like. - Francesco Martinelli, PointOfDeparture.org, USA, 2010
Polish composer/clarinetist Wacław Zimpel is one of the most promising musicians from the European continent. - Eyal Hareuveni, AllAboutJazz.com, USA, 2012

HILLIARD GREENE's fabulous arco bass mixes lyricism with a burning, literally ferocious desire of opening the listener's mind. - Massimo Ricci, Touching Extremes, Italy, 2007
I found his composition to be extraordinary in its depth of emotion. Hill’s remarkable virtuosity and passion on his instrument and spiritual awareness was ever present throughout. - Margot Elizabeth Meyers, JazzImprov, NY, USA, 2006

KLAUS KUGEL is a commanding force behind the drum set. He creates layers of tension drawn out from intuitive listening. There is a constant emotional swelling underlying every fill and cymbal crash. - John Barron, JazzReview.com, USA, 2007
These three discs ... show Kugel as a drummer whose nearly boundless energy and imagination cannot be confined by neat categories. - Ed Hazel, Signal To Noise, USA, 2006

2)___For info about the Americana/Roots band, Switchback, from Chicago, IL, USA, please go to www.waygoodmusic.com to view photos, video, bio and more.  Our albums are Ghosts of the River Folk, The Fire that Burns, Bolinree, Nancy Whiskey, Falling Water River, Dars Place, A Very Merry Christmas and The Tenth Anniversary Collection.

3)___Switchback is a heavy, chaotic and technically skilled band. They are young, cute and they rock. The future will devote their talent, work and abnegation sooner than anyone expect. Like any bands they spent their first years of rehearsal sharpening their play. They recorded two demos following the same reflection. The year 2004 Switchback thought time had come to pass to the serious things. They recorded a powerful and dark album. It's been recorded in their hometown during two months of intense efforts. A few line-up changes have been operated since their creation in 1999. Some changes had to be done and switchback is now a great bunch of young killer! To have a look at what they do, listen for a few seconds of "Angel Of Mine" their first album now released on ARAKI records and distributed by the famous German label Dead Serious records. Fans of destabilizing deathcore, it's your turn! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Switchback">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.