Kasseem Dean (born August 30, 1978 in The Bronx, New York), better known by his stage name Swizz Beatz, is a producer, rapper, actor, writer and painter best known for producing songs for artists such as Jay-Z, Kanye West, DMX, Drake, Chris Brown and Mary J. Blige. The husband of Alicia Keys and the nephew of Ruff Ryders founders Chivon, Joaquin and Darrin Dean, he began his music career in 1994 serving as a producer for their label. He released his debut album One Man Band Man in 2007, it included the hit single Money in the Bank. His second album, Haute Living, is set to be released sometime in 2011. He was married to R&B singer Mashonda for four years and married Alicia Keys in September 2010.

With his aunt Chivon Dean, and uncles Dee, and Waah Dean involved with the Ruff Ryders label, he began to produce tracks at the age of 16. He sold his first beat at 17 which became DMX's hit single Ruff Ryders Anthem. He started working with Ruff Ryders, Roc-A-Fella Records, Elektra Records, Epic Records, Def Jam Recordings, and Bad Boy Entertainment and his career blew up from there. But it wasn't until his first solo album, 2002's Presents G.H.E.T.T.O. Stories, that he started to get notices for his production style and interesting ideas. He released two singles "Guilty" and "Bigger Business" and both had music videos.[

Swizz Beatz has his own record label called Full Surface which was helped developed by Cassidy and is currently working on albums by Cassidy, Jay-Z, 2 Much, 50 Cent, Drag-On, Papoose, Busta Rhymes, Ruff Ryders, Michael Jackson, Eve, T.I., Lil Wayne, Bow Wow, Bone Thugs-N-Harmony, Eminem, Lil Jon and Ludacris. He is also set to be recording the new album for his close friend DMX which is confirmed to be titled Walk with Me Now and You'll Fly with Me Later. It was also confirmed he will be working with Jennifer Lopez for the first time on her new album.

Swizz Beatz released his first proper solo album titled One Man Band Man on August 21, 2007, selling 45,000 records in its first week of release including songs such as "It's Me Bitches", "Money in the Bank".

On October 19, 2007, as an extension to his first solo project, Swizz Beatz launched a contest called Music Video 2.0 and The Source Magazine Presents "Share the Studio." The contest and allows unsigned/indie music artists the opportunity to compete on the Music Video 2.0 website for the chance to open for Swizz Beatz at a NYC event.

Swizz Beatz also did an interview with MTV about his next album stating he just leaked a record called "Hard Knocks" with Drag-On. It's the first offering from Beatz's upcoming follow-up to One Man Band Man.

“ Everybody is expecting 'It's Me Bitches' or 'Money in the Bank', I just want to use my opportunity to get a little more serious in the artist department, as a performer and lyricist. Not giving a f--- about radio and all that. I just want to give hip-hop something that's not on the radio. A lot of the songs I got can blend in on the radio, but 'School of Hard Knocks' don't blend in with nothing on the radio. I'm already in full mode. What they want me to do? Let's get it. I'm busting shots early — bong, bong! 
The title is between Life After the Party and Remember Hip-Hop," he continued. "I'm in between them. I don't even have a date on my joint. I'm just feeling out the scene.
 ”  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Swizz+Beatz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.