British thrashers Sworn Amongst, the foursome behind one of 2008’s most ambitious metal debuts And So It Begins, bring you their uncompromisingly fearsome follow-up, Severance. Driven by the band’s unrelenting will to cause general mayhem, Severance brings the best of what was to be found on their previous release and turns up the heat tenfold. Severance showcases the band’s diversity and ability to create powerful modern metal while honouring the roots of traditional thrash and speed metal.

Since forming in 2003 Sworn Amongst has steadily built a fan base with their studio release and their brutal live performances. After 2005’s independently released debut Derision of Conformity, Sworn Amongst caught the eye of metal label Rising Records who signed them in 2007. The band headed into the studio to record And So It Begins which was well received by fans and critics, with Metal Hammer calling the album “A massively promising & accomplished debut.”

Over the last eighteen months, the band has taken part in several European and UK tours, with the band terrorising more than 150 venues in nearly fifteen countries. Sworn Amongst’s tours include Earache’s 2008 Thrashing Like a Maniac Tour, Breed77 and Susperia’s Insects & Attitude Tour in 2009 plus The Systematically Exploited Tour in April 2010 soon followed by the Death Thrash Destruction Tour With Man Must Die & The Rotted and then onto the Total Annihilation European Tour With Canadian Speed Metal Legends Annihilator and their own 2009 headlining And So It Begins Tour with 105 dates across the UK and Ireland. They have also played the prestigious UK festivals Bloodstock and Hammerfest as well as Spain’s Thrash Em All Festival and Germany’s Wurzburg Metalfest. Its these experiences on the road that have seen Sworn Amongst evolve and forge ahead with their brutal new approach.

After feverishly writing and recording in 2009, the band is ready to deliver on the promise they’ve shown in the past by releasing the devastating full length Severance, which will be available WORLDWIDE in February 2010. Sworn Amongst will soon be embarking on their most extensive tour to date. Be prepared to experience utter mayhem when Sworn Amongst takes over your town with their in-yourr-face live performance and unrelenting intensity.

2010 has been a busy year for the band seeing them touring with label mates Abadden and Relapse records Man Must Die & Metal Blades The Rotted. Sworn Amongst Have also recently appeared at the Ukraine's Metal Heads Mission Festival Playing alongside the like of the USA's Cannibal Corpse, Napalm Death, Fleshgore and many more!

The band have also recently been confirmed on the Total Annihilation Tour to Support Canadian Metal Legends Annihilator throughout Europe! 

Watch this space!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sworn+Amongst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.