Bronx born and Atlanta raised, Sy “Da Kid” Brockington got his start in music by rapping amongst friends in high school. Upon graduation Da Kid took to the airwaves, battle rapping on Atlanta’s HOT 107.9 FM and scoring 11 consecutive wins. A self taught producer, Da Kid mastered production and recording with Pro Tools. Da Kid’s production skills brought him to the attention of Grammy Award winning songwriter/producer Brian Michael Cox who signed him to a deal producing on his label, December First Publishing Group. It was from that deal that Da Kid officially launched his independent label Arrogant Music, in which he serves as the CEO and the main recording artist. Da Kid’s lyrical mastery and connections in the industry have resulted in opportunities to write on many hip hop artists’ projects. Da Kid’s versatility and extreme work ethic is what distinguishes him from most artists. 

A prolific writer, Da Kid released a barrage of mixtapes in 2011 including his first formal solo project entitled The Ultrasound, widely regarded as a classic within Hip-Hop circles. Da Kid has already released three mixtapes one month into 2012 including The Other Guys with fellow label mate Sean Teezy and The Best of Da Kid parts one and two which showcase his lyrical ability and versatility in an impressive 106 tracks between part one and two. Da Kid has worked with the likes of Waka Flocka, Future, Travis Porter, Spliff Starr, Roscoe Dash, Alley Boy, Cyhi Da Prince, Slim Dunkin, Lil Niqo, Lady Luck, Dolla Boy, & The Runners just to name a few and has been regularly featured on the two biggest hip-hop sites, livemixtapes.com and worldstarhiphop.com as well as iTunes. Da Kid IS MUSIC! 

From his passion for production, to his ability to paint a vivid picture lyrically with a distinctly smooth style, his songs embody soul, honesty, passion, pain & love. There is no limit to what Da Kid will accomplish in the music industry and his journey is nothing short of history in the making. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Sy+Ari+Da+Kid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.