Matthieu Morand is the leader of the progressive metal band Elvaron that has released 4 albums from 1997 to 2007. He performed over 80 gigs (with Hydrogin, Freedom Call, Nightmare, Blaze, Soul Doctor...) with this band. He's also guitarist and main composer of the symphonic black metal band AkromA (2 albums released). For his part, Kevin Kazek is the frontman of the symphonic heavy metal band Seyminhol that released 3 albums since 2002 and did an impressive number of shows (opening for Vulcain, Blaze Bayley, Vanden Plas, Royal Hunt, Virgin Steel, Paul Di Anno, Samael, Loudblast, Manigance, Nightmare …). Kevin was called to sing in a lot of project, he worked with Lord Siggi and Alexander Landenburg (Annihilator), Elvaron, … Finally, Thomas Das Neves with his experience as a drummer for the melodic speed metal band Heavenly (from 2004 to 2009). He recorded the album Virus and had the chance to work with philip Colodetti (Edguy, Kamelot, Epica, Rhapsody of fire …) and Mika Jussila of the famous Finnvox Studio (Helsinki, Finland). He played for the video clip Virus and he performed a lot of gigs and festivals (opening for Virgin Steel, Scorpions, Manowar, Gamma Ray, Hellfest …). He was also on the DVD of the Magic Circle Festival with Manowar, where two songs of the Heavenly's show were filmed. Once the concept has found, Matt began to write the score, and after a year of work it was time to record. Matt recorded the guitars and basses in Elvaron's Lair Studio from February to May 2010. Olivier Lapauze (Heavenly) played a guitar solo as a guest. Thomas recorded the drums and Kevin's vocals at Das2Das Studio from January to May 2010. The orchestral sequences were virtually conducted by Nicolas Soulat (Outcast). The mix was made by Simon Oberender (Epica, Kamelot, Edguy, Avantasia …). Simon has really felt the music of Symakya and he took the band to an higher level. The mastering was given to Sascha Paeth (Angra, Kamelot, Epica, Rhapsody Of Fire …) and Simon Oberender. They mastered the album at the Gate Studio (Wolfburg, Germany) The result is impressive! The album " Majestic 12 : Open Files " is about to be released. Cover artwork is signed by Rainer Kalwitz. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Symakya">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.