There are a few bands named 'Symbolic':

1) Symbolic is a Bulgarian Thrash Metal Band founded in September of 2002 year in Varna City by active members Stanimir Stavrev (Stavry) - vocals, Niki Bonev - guitar, Vasil Harizanov - guitar and Nikola Nikolov - bass. 
In the beginning of 2004 band accepted Vlado (Rambo) Marinov - drums.
The first songs of the band were covers of their favorite bands like Death, Testament, Carcass, Megadeth, Paradise Lost and many others. Band started concerting in Varnas Rock clubs in the autumn of 2002 and played almost every week in Talisman club, TNT, Alibi club, Down city, Area 51, Motoclub bar. Symbolic also played at some rock festivals like Winter Frost Festival 2003 & 2004 - Dobrich, Varna Summer 2004, Hysteria fest 2005, Berkstock 2005 (together with punk legends The Exploited and many other bands), Razgrad Rock 2005 , Shkorpilovci Fest 2004 & 2005. The band started recording their debut album in the autumn of 2005. The CD named Mea Culpa[/ablum] contains 8 songs + 1 remix version of the song Overdose. Album came out in the end of May 2006 issued by Area 51 Records.


2) Symbolic  ( also check: http://www.last.fm/music/Symbolic+Band ) is formed in Tuzla ( BiH) in summer of 1999 when old line up split up. 
Remaining members Mirza (Smajlovic) on guitar and Piper (Eldar Ibrahimovic) on drums asked Dejo (Slavuljica) to join on vocals. Band began with composing when they were joined by another Mirza (Osmanovic) on bass guitar just few weeks after. Band played a mixture of older classic rock music and a neo-classical progressive music. In just few months time band had five songs and a demo recording. All songs were written by all band members together. Demo was recorded in a home studio, where most of the rehearsing also took place. In September of 2000 the band had its’ first live appearance which took place in Palma, Tuzla. Each year the band turned up with few new songs and did a gig. In July of 2001 band was joined by Jelenko (Bosnjakovic) on the bass guitar as Mirza showed more interest for other kinds of music. Soon after, band played on a “Tuzla Wave festival”.

In August of 2002 the band began recording in an improvised home studio and result was a 10 song CD. The CD was finished in December of 2002. Mastering was carried out with help of Jusuf Sehovic, apart from that the CD was composed, arranged, recorded and designed by Symbolic members on their own.

In 2003 the band line up changed once again. Dejo was unable to continue working with the band and a quick but decent solution was Zlatko Josic. The band was able to do two gigs after few weeks of rehearsing with Hard Time from Croatia and Bavaria Fest 2003. Soon after for some personal reasons, Jelenko also left the band. This was not an easy replacement, since there are few good bass players in this area who love progressive music. Three months later, (cca. Nov. 2003) the band was joined by Ado Osmanovic, which was followed by number of gigs. The band did gigs in B&H including Sarajevo, Domaljevac, Gracanica, Odzak, and some places in Croatia as well 
(Osijek and Kumrovec Open Air Fest). This line up completed a demo material in November of 2004 simply called “DEMO 2004”, which consists of four songs and was positively recognized in the media.

At the end of 2004 Zlaja also left the band as the demand for rehearsing and practicing increased. The band was joined by Gogo as a lead singer and Amna as a background singer in late 2004. From then onwards the band worked on new songs. When total of 10 new songs was reached the band decided to start with the recording of their second full length studio material. The band decided to purchase studio equipment from the money earned by playing gigs and to record studio material on their own. Recording began during summer 2005 and ended at the beginning of 2006 following by extensive mixing period. The band also played on numerous festivals throughout 2005, such as Soda Open Air, Bosnian Metal Fest, Radio Mir Demo Fest, and so on. During the recording session, the band split apart with background singer Amna.

In early 2008 Symbolic was invited to be featured on Melodic Metal Worldwide compilation CD released which was released in June 2008 by Shaded Moon Entertainment label.

In the year 2007 the band scheduled a release of their Dreamend through a label from Bosnia. After more than half a year from scheduled release date it turned out that label was unable to carry out the agreed deal. The band went back to studio to improve the quality of recording and produce a professional material in order to find appropriate record deal. After days of remixing, mastering and looking for a label, the album was finally released trough Shaded Moon Entertainment on 15 March 2009. The band was recently joined by Emir Hujdur on bass guitar.


3) Symbolic is a German Melodic Death Metal Band.
They were founded 2004 by Andreas Schiegl, Reinhold Trost und Bastian Löser.
After some time Philipp Schindler and Alex Staudt came to them.
They have released their first album. 


4) Symbolic is a Polish thrash/groove metal band. Founded in 2005 by Niedzwiec, Kliki, Coniu and Power. Released two demos and a full length promo entitled - "Creation of Mist". Right now spending time on touring and writing the material for a a full length album. 

5) 
DJ OSHO part of Symbolic - 
With such a long & vibrant international DJ career, DJ Osho is considers as one of the leading & most innovative DJ's coming out of Israel. Oshry Ben Simon, aka DJ Osho, was born and raised in the sunny southern city, Beer Sheva, and fell in love with electronic music in the early 90's, and has been DJ'ing since the end of 1999. For 3 years he was the resident of the 'Electro Neto' weekly line of parties at the Barcoteque (Q Club), and got to play alongside various artists and DJ's from the International Dance Music scene. He has performed in a wide variety of events, from clubs, private events to large open-air events and festivals in Israel and around the world. His long resume include demanding stages such as, Souleclipse Festival (Turkey), Rhythm of Peace Festival (Morocco), XXXperience (Brazil), Spirit Base Festival (Austria), Progressive Explosion (Mexico), Massive Trance (Mexico), Sonica Reload Festival (Italy), T.A.Z Festival (Israel), Freedom Festival (Portugal), Soul Tech Festival (Mexico), Paramount Club (China), Maxim Club (Israel), Baraka Club (Israel) and in countries, such as Germany, Greece, Denmark, Hungry, Czech Republic, and many more. In 2006 DJ Osho along with Elad Echoes heads into his next venture by forming Echoes Records, as a platform allowing him to release his vision of progressive oriented music. Echoes Records is considered, these days, as one of the top international Progressive Trance & Progressive House labels, played by pretty much all of the leading DJ's and is placed in all of the most respected charts. This platform shares the vision of creating top quality productions from all corners of the globe. The main concept is raising awareness to the most innovative and cutting edge sounds in the available Progressive scene. DJ Osho is well-known for his tight, pressured, yet groovy & pumping, uplifting & energetic DJ sets, master of the mix, DJ Osho fusses tightly sounds that cross all genre boundaries, running from Progressive delights to hard edged Techno trough Tech House.

6) Folk Rock Band from Latvia. Symbolic formed in a three year period, from 2000 up untill 2003, when they participated at music and art festival ''Bildes''. Symbolic performed a folk-metal song ''Daugaviņa'' together with Niks Matvejevs and that was the turning point when the band decided to continue playing this style.

Latvians have longstanding history of singing about nature, mythological characters and the same is present in the music of Symbolic. Folk is still important for the latvian culture and identity and that is the message the band wants to spread to their audience.

Symbolic wants to reach people who feel that their roots, their land and ancestors and history is really important and all others who are interested in latvian culture and tradition. In 2017 band released their debute album Mūžam saule debesīs <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Symbolic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.