Symptoms of Sickness was created in 2006 by Elnefial. After almost a decade of playing with his main Black Metal band Magog/Evangeli, Sweden, and being a stand in drummer for many other acts, Elnefial decided to create a new path.

The idea behind Symptoms of Sickness was and still is to develop a sound that is haunting, dark, and gripping, with a lyrical theme that focuses on his personal views. The name Symptoms of Sickness was created due to his interest in the Dark Medieval Times and the morbid history of mental care that is still an ongoing issue in the world. Elnefial does not consider Symptoms of Sickness to be a political band even though some of the lyrics clearly touch upon political themes.

In 2006 Elnefial recorded a three song demo that never saw the light of day. Shortly after the recording session, in mid 2007, Elnefial relocated to the US to start a new life and there he continued his work on new material for future releases.

In 2008, which was a very important year for Elnefial and the future of Symptoms of Sickness, an explosion of material started to form into songs that could cover more than two full-length albums. After years of creating, puzzling pieces together, finding the right sound, Elnefial finally had his mind set on a release.

Elnefial always had one thing in mind before ever performing with Symptoms of Sickness, and that was: "I will produce at least an EP, all by myself, to show the world what Symptoms of Sickness is all about before I venture into a band setting again. This is very important for me, this is the way it has to be done.". In 2013 the time had come for the first release from Symptoms of Sickness. A full-length album was set in motion and after months of hard work in his studio the first album (self-titled) was born. 'Symptoms of Sickness' was released on December 18, 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Symptoms+of+Sickness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.