i)Female fronted Gothic Metal band from France 

ii)All this Passions begin with the self-taught guitarist:
Aman - Noor Aman Sabran -

the band founder born on 1972 in the heart of K.L.

aman symphonia

The humble-low profile Neoclassical influenced’s guitarist - known for its finger tones and his wailing speeds.

Many called him the best neoclassical rock/metal improvisasist guitar player in malaysia - judging by the level of  neoclassical vocabularies that he has..

He chosed and hold his preference only to neoclassical-baroque rock/metal platform and became a very good at it

through self-exploration - reading all neoclassical influences structure of compositions and countless hours of practises since the young ages.

as time goes by, the need for proper musicians to formed a neoclassical power metal cames into his mind, so he gather several close frens auditions.

in early 97

together with old time frens - Jeffri -bassist & Suhaimie -drummer,
Aman team-up with - Nor Faizal Zainuddin(Badang)- vocal/keyboard & Mohd.Ariffin (Eddie) -2nd guitarist to form -

Melon King

the album titled : Sayembara Kuasa been released to the market a year later. this album fully-recorded in Tricastle studio(p.jaya) owned by KingShah (Metalasia) and distributed later by PonyCanyon.

This release is considered as the first Malaysian neoclassical power metal proper’s material  judging to the standard quality of the sound during the recording : but the decent/poor quality of mixing & mastering done by the King himself are highly critical and questionable, certainly not to Aman & MK expectations

The line up stay put until 2002 although the Group was not fully satisfied with the royalties from the sale. It hurt them badly.

They’ve been sideline, lost hope and certainly not a rose from Tricastle.

Since 1999 they keep composing and recording new materials.
to forget all the setback they changed the name to

SYMPHONIA MELONIA.

Then after in 2000
they tried to embrace more audiences with their english’s sung album called A New Beginning

by this time, They took different approach, Its totally selfrecorded by AMAN using a 8 track recorder+ mastered thru Home desktop pc .They decide later to record the vocal & final mix/master only in the proper studio.finally the printing cd & label funded by private investor.

The’ve to plan and sized things down as they understand the local market is not really favour this genre, not a big pie segment for this kind of music.

by this time AMAN has insufficient time to manage the band, commitment to his fulltime career , his growing private guitar lessons(partime) and the wedding preparation,

so he left the tasks to badang and eddie to handle the album progress : the mix & master process and finally the distribution’s sale.

the next year, 2001 foreseen some indifferent/disagreement between band members toward musical directions and band commitments.

then in 2002 Aman decided to disband the group as he found some members has lacked of selfimprovement plus the full degrees of commitment & trust within the group has been deteriorated.

to add to the decision,it was the disagreement on the sale royalties. not much favoured to Aman himself.

later in September 2004, Two of them - Badang & Eddie formed ORION with another members.

The only member that stay through the hardtime
with AMAN is - brother Jeppri after Amie left the band 6 month later

as time goes by AMAN decided to remain low profle, gave his fullcommitment on his executive career in insurance and still continue his private guitar tuitions.

The ideas of instrumental solo project came to his mind later in 2003 . starting with the improvisation and ideas he get from his influences and some new inventions.

AMAN has rebuild his fame/name again with the release of another circulative gift to the market - a deep neoclassical baroque material - a lots of tantalizing shred progressions, phrases, killer riff and high level of advance solo’s & classical influenced’s interludes.

by keeping the same formula - simple & minimal cost, he using the same equipments : still 8-track recorder & home pc-mastering. This is totally self recorded/produced materials.

Its consider a demo but with great cd sounds

DragonHeart 2004

acclaimed as the best local shred materials with impressive sounds quality by that time.

This time he got all the pie, no disagreement with anyone except himself

to put it in a cliche - he’s finally win the game.

but he felt something was missing…

The Born of SYMPHONIA - History begin

2005

The years after, he get the answer. a motivation from innerself, closefrens and many diehard neoclassical fans to rebuilt the neoclassical influenced’s band with new members.

in a cliche:

the local scene of neoclassical baroque rock need its king, a leader, a reference to continue the struggle, break the barrier, then claim the throne.

it will motivate others to survive from within a group. in the hope that many new bands will choose this genre and manage to offer more interesting material.

AMAN decided to plan several close frens sessions and also closed auditions in mid 2004.

he has met and discover several new talents and planning to recruit/monitor them by himself consistently.

2004:

the New Light came subsequently with the new addition of 3 talented musicians:

old time rocker - low profile - harsh/high-pitch vocalist! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Symphonia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.