SYMURAN horde was founded in August 25, 2008 by Vlad Rommel in Kharkiv, Ukraine. 
The name of the band comes from the Slavonic mythology: Symuran – the sacred winged wolf, an embodiment of one of the seven supreme gods of the pantheon of ancient Semargl. It has a fiery breath, and the demonic nature...
As a symbol, it is perfectly captures the essence of the band. 

 By the beginning of 2009, SYMURAN preparing to debut on the stage. At the same time recorded live-demo "DEMOnized" includes three tracks and two cover versions: "Cry of the Black Birds" of Amon Amarth (Symuran – "Ravens") and "Diaboli Virtus in Lumbar Est" of Belphegor. 

 The first positive reviews in press came after July 3, 2009 when SYMURAN, at the annual Biker's Friendly fest "Northern Earth" near the town of Glukhov, showed all aggression of their music on stage. (Received the award for "The most hardest band of the festival" and described in an article in "MotoDrayv" magazine). 

 The concert activity in clubs of SYMURAN native city encouraged to change their ideology from Satanic to Pagan Blackened Death metal, with partly changing the logo of the band. 

At that time, band contains from:
 Vlad Rommel – Vocals
 Gravedancer – Guitar
 Smerch – Lead-guitar
 Shadar – Bass
 Voron – Drums 

 December 17, 2009 marked by the new web-release – the single called "The Night Will Fall Down Again".
 In autumn 2011 the formation began to record their debut album called "Syklus av Helheim", which included songs written between 2008 and 2010, and it was completed in February 2012. Mixed and mastered by Astargh (ex-Nokturnal Mortum). 

 In July 2012 SYMURAN horde participants signed a contract with the greatest metal label in Ukraine "Metal Scrap Records". 

Horde members were:
 Vlad Rommel – Vocals
 Smerch – Lead-guitar
 Khort – Bass
 Hagalth – Guitar & Drumm programming 

Current members:
 Vlad Rommel – Vocals
 Khort – Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Symuran">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.