Synapse is:
1. Industrial Hardcore producer from the Netherlands.

2. Electro/Experimental/Glitch producer from Norwich now based in London.

3. Art Pop group formed by Ikue Mori, Haco, & Aki Onda

4. A Futurepop group from Denver, Colorado.

5. A Hip hop lyricist/producer from California now based in Connecticut

6.  Electro/techno/experimental producer from Moscow, Russia.

1. From the moment Timo was born he liked funny noises. He created the weirdest sounds using his mouth. At first his parents thought this was normal (keeping in mind he was only two weeks old). But it didn’t stop at the age of seven. It only got worse and their biggest fear came true: Dj mental Timo was born.

At the age of approximately eight Timo started taking drum lessons. Although he liked playing the drums a lot, he didn’t like the obligatory exercises. When he went to high school (age 12) he switched from drums to a 286 pc.

Instantly hooked on Fasttracker, Timo alias DJ Dudgeon mixed his first songs using the onboard pc-speaker. Since Ft was only 8 bit, had no effects, no automation whatsoever, he had to be very creative. Searching for samples in other mods, recording the sound of his zipper and sampling the hum of a cable that wasn’t plugged in correctly were a few ways to get that unique sound he was looking for.

Reaching the age of nineteen he felt like buying a couple of belt driven turntables and started to buy hardcore records. (Actually he felt like buying the SL-1200’s instead but he simply didn’t have the money). He really enjoyed spinning hardcore at home but also wanted to check out other styles. Especially drum ‘n bass drew his attention. After spending a lot of money on new records and practicing a lot, he got some bookings at small clubs in The Hague using the name Dj Dudgeon.    

In 2001 he started a study Sound Design at the School of Arts in Utrecht (HKU).
It was there where he met Jan Kamphuis (Sei2ure) whom happened to live in The Hague as well.
Jan had a drum ‘n bass live act named Sunflower and soon Timo joined. He was responsible for the more raw none vocal tracks. After a period of time Timo and Jan decided to continue together as a hardcore live act. This was due the fact that their drum ’n bass performances had a tendency to become rougher and harsher anyway (often ending with 180 bpm hardcore madness and even faster unintended terror).

After sending a few demos they both signed a contract with Cardiac Music. Timo joined the Enzyme crew in 2004 and Synapse was a fact. In that same year he released his first track on Enzyme K7-5 called “Renoised Sine”. Nowadays Timo wants to focus on the more experimental/intelligent hardcore, but won’t neglect other styles as well.
Synapse can be booked as a DJ and as a Live-act (the live-act is, ofcourse, together with his friend Sei2ure).

2.  Synapse aka James Grant started his musical obsession at an early age learning the violin, piano and ultimately drums. He founded his dance music interests with some copied music program demos and his parents old pc, blended with a healthy dose of Norfolk free parties. It was there that, like with most of us, he found a love of relentless hours of beats, bass and party people. After this, James started going to the infamous Wang parties at the premises in Hackney and found a new love for underground electro and bass. From then Synapse went on to develop his own style of twisted mutant breaks and heavy,dancefloor electro bass.

He has since released tracks for Colony Productions, Combat Recordings, Digital Distortions, Subgrade records and Bass gun.

3. The talented singer from After Dinner, an environmental composer now living in New York, a legendary pioneer of laptop electronics and a multi-instrumentalist from Kansai come together to create a beautiful CD of experimental pop songs. Working together and separately back and forth from NY to Japan, these four legendary masters have fashioned a remarkable world of sound, lyric and rhythm. Creative and colorful music reaches across the world.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Synapse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.