http://www.myspace.com/synapsedefect2012

Synapse Defect was originally a project started in Atlanta, GA in 2004, that went by the name "Smirking Revenge". In 2005, the band was relocated to Orlando, FL, reformed, and took on the name "Synapse Defect" eventually relocating again back to Atlanta, GA in 2007. The projects intention was to create a new sound in the realms of Death Metal and Grindcore that was extremely animated, fast and brutal yet still comprehensible and lyrically meaningful. Going against the grain of the "A" typical death metal vocal structure, the lyrical content of remains rhythmic and in most cases rhyming. Although, one would still not be likely to identify a chorus or "hook"amongst the bands songs. The music extends a vast array of, bludgeoning gravity blasts, linear beats and poly rhythms, extremely technical jazz influenced riffing with a conservative amount of super slick lead guitar shred work. And to accompany such chaos the band still often breaks the music down to more basic, "catchy" parts that get all wrapped up into one clean, distinguishably raw package, that is "Synapse Defect". Amongst the genre's the band has been labeled under, include Death Metal, Grindcore, Math-Metal, Experimental, Hardcore, Jazz Metal, Tech-Metal, Thrash, and Speed Metal.

Since the bands incarnation, Synapse Defect has organized the release of over 3,000 professionally printed Demo/Compilation CD's which were freely distributed throughout the Southeast, and are planning to print and unleash another 2,000 free demo's in the Spring of 2009.

Among significant dates in the bands history, June 29, 2008 marked the release date of Synapse Defect's nine-track EP entitled "conspiracy to overthrow", 1,000 copy's were printed, and is currently available for distribution and is sold on the internet and at shows from the band member themselves. And in January 2009 The band released their first professional music video directed and produced by David Anthony for their song "White Light Conveyor Belt".

Drummer "Snap" is one of the original co-founders of the band. He has been playing drums for six plus years, but has only played drums for Synapse Defect since late 2005, he was originally the guitar player of the band. Snap graduated at the top of his class from Fullsail Audio College and worked beside James Murphy on several different Roadrunner Records projects including the DAATH "The Hinderers" Release amongst other accomplishments. He engineers and co-produces all of Synapse Defect's recordings and owns and operates "Synap2012 Studio's".

Vocalist "Maximus" is one or the original co-founders of the band, and has ten years of vocal experience under his belt as a screamer, and also studied operatic technique for two years. He chooses to remain anonymous about the bands/projects he took part in before starting Synapse Defect, but has contributed as a guest vocalist on many different studio and live projects. He does all the vocal arrangements and works exclusively with "The Collective" to provide concepts and lyrical content for the band. A quote from and album review by The Apparatus states: "Vocalist Maximus Watness enters the fray with an abrasive rasp, although he is equally capable of registering a skin-peeling hiss ("Decimal 2") or gut busting death-croak ("Corporation vs. Social Mega-beast")."

Bass player "Mr. Frendly" is also one of the original co-founding members of Synapse Defect, but took a hiatus when the band moved to Orlando, FL and rejoined the band when they relocated back to Atlanta, GA. Also was in a local Atlanta band with the vocalist "Maximus" before Synapse Defect was conjured.

Rhythm guitarist "KrakerBeard" is one of the two new additions to Synapse Defect. He brings an even more ruthless death metal influence to the band and an explosive stage presence. Having formerly played in two Atlanta-based bands "Selva" and "Ecryptus". His roots run deep in the local Atlanta music scene, and indeed proves to be driving force in Synapse Defect.

Lead guitarist "Bjorn the Slayer" is the final ingredient to the front line of Synapse Defect, and brings the much needed technical shred-candy to the bands sound. Also a veteran to the music scene, he has jammed in several different projects and currently maintains a position in one other local Atlanta band called "Extinction".

In spite of their brutally technical sound on recording, Synapse Defect really comes out when you can experience them in their natural element, the stage! These guys will melt your face off in a live setting. They are all natural entertainers and born musicians and know how to please a crowd, when these guys walk off the stage, they leave the crowd begging for more!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Synapse+Defect">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.