As the band formed in 1999 they could easily be called a school’s band project because all 4 founding members were about 18 years old and still went to school. They called themselves “SYNESTHESIA” back then, a made up form of the german word “Synesthäsie” (explanation see below). Due to a simple printing mistake (an ‘a` instead of an ‘e’) they stuck with “SYNASTHASIA” what didn’t change it again up to today.

The band consisted of Dennis Marschallik (guitars), Martin Jun (bass), Kristof Becker (drums) and Dennis Schunke (voice). Drummer Kristof Becker and guitarist Dennis Marschallik were the two main songwriters within the band. Especially multi-talent Kristof gave the songs a touch of melancholy. The result was sort of a unique bastard between Metal and Grunge. The first self-produced demo “The Ocean of dreams” however earned very good responses despite of the doubts of the band and it didn’t let the crowd wait a long time for the first gigs. Several shows in the hometown of the band and around that area in front of some hundred fans gave the band a good name in the local scene.

But apart from the euphoria in the first place the band disappeared from the scene in the following year, 2000. What has happened? Kristof Becker left the band from one day to another. Reason? No way.

SYNASTHASIA had to begin all over again from the start. The whole line-up was mixed up these days: Dennis Marschallik transformed from guitarist to drummer and in his place Christian Bruckschen joined the band as a guitarist. Nevertheless discontent ruled the emotional side of the band. They decided to get heavier which should be realised with twin-guitar melodies. Since Dennis still yearned for his six-string the band went on searching for a good drummer. But many months shall pass the band before Rene Sperlich joined the band in 2002 and reanimated their will to continue with the band.

The band grew to a real team that complemented one another in their innovations. So they started recording the demo “The Land of Lores” in Winter 2003 with a 16-track mixer. The plan was to represent the band’s rough reality without effects or “beautyfications” of the sound. The work in their rehearsal room increased the members professionality and fun to play. Especially singer Dennis Schunke, who up to then was some kind of inconspicuous was really influenced by the general happiness within the band which made him develop into a singing-monster within shortest time. During the recordings he drew every last bit out of his voice and let the other members be standing there with wide open eyes. So finally now SYNASTHASIA could enter the world’s stages by now.

This started in February 2003 with a first series of shows. The growing presence of the band in the local press, in web magazines and fanzines (see “reviews” on the homepage in the “multimedia” section) procured for the band an impressive crowd of fans who turned every concert show into a hell of a happening. Over and over labels and other interested people contacted the band but since all band members agreed that the time was too early to enter the professional music business they rejected the offers.

In July 2004 a guy called Andy Brings contacted the band to remember them that they took part in the “Superband-Competition” whose jury consisted of a local newspaper and this Andy Brings. SYNASTHASIA made the first place out of 150 bands and won a professional three track recording session. This lasted some time but the result could be presented to the longing crowd on the band’s annual Halloween party.

The year 2004 was spend writing songs for the new material and doing shows regularly. By then the guys bought a good amount of studio equipment and were prepared to record a professional album on their own. So right on time in the early 2005 they started recording the new stuff. Unfortunately Rene left the band shortly before the recordings began because he couldn’t combine job and band properly. But the search for a worthy drummer to replace this hole within the band was short since the band’s buddy Dennis Strillinger was more than a replacement on the drummer’s seat. “Strilli” didn’t only fit into the band from the musical side but especially personally to the other guys.

When all the instrumental recordings were done and they only had the vocals left to record the lyrical kick in the nuts got the band by the balls: The hard disk drive crashed and all the recordings were lost. There were no back ups unfortunately so the band started over again from the beginning with the recordings so that the album should be done somewhere in summer ’05. 

Heavy Metal acts of the eighties,
Thrashmonster of the Bay Area or Melodic Death Metal acts from Scandinavia: SYNASTHASIA combines all of them !! The group from the Ruhrpott Area is devestating the gutter since 1999, never leaving the path of melody. In their history Synasthasia also played in dark dusty Pubs, as on huge stages in front of thousands of people. There were great moments like top rankings in well known band contests. Gigs with famous bands as Ektomorf, Ensiferum, Finntroll, Paul di Anno, Wintersun, Savage Circus, etc. are part of Synasthasia’s history. Since 2008 Synasthasia has a new line up with completely new songs! With the new members Dominik Timm (dr., 21) and Jochen Kinner (voc., 23) Synasthasia strikes again and is going to devestate many different halls in the near future!
Also yours !!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Synasthasia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.