A number of artists use the name Syndicate:

1. Newcastle, Australia based techno producers. Affiliated with the legendary Bloody Fist Records. Hardcore. Yes. Brothers Gavin and Warren Burke have a unique Breakbeat / Hardcore Sound. Classic.

2. Syndicate formed in mid-2005 with members Tom Hawes, James Webster and Joe Conway. Then they roped in Tom Walters to hit drums for them. Then Rob Webster, James' brother hopped in on some bass action. Finally, Mia Warner shuffled onto the scene with her vocal talent completing the Syndicate line-up!

Their first EP, 'Footsteps on the Moon' was recorded July 2006 for a later-date release.

www.myspace.com/itsthesyndicate

3. The Syndicate is also a band from Chicago/Northwest Indiana. The five piece plays southern rock/metal often featuring solos from either or both guitar player. The band released the 6 track EP "Create & Destroy" in late 2007.

4. Syndicate were also a Garage Punk Band from the sixties.

5. SYNDICATE is an alternative thrash-metal group of late 'teens from California's Bay Area with an Extended Play demonstration due out in summer of 2009.
www.myspace.com/jointhesyndicate

6. Syndicate is a progressive metal/hardcore band from Toronto Ontario. They are dedicated to creating very original music, and take the basic verse-chorus-verse-chorus structure and throw it in the garbage.
Check them out at www.myspace.com/syndicatebandpage

7. Syndicate is an Australian rock act signed to Sony Music. www.syndicateofficial.com

8. Syndicate was also a metalcore band from Sydney,  released an album called "since now all is lost" in 2002

9. Syndicate was a synth band from Edinburgh, Scotland. They were active in the mid 1980's and their lineup included Jamo Stewart (Vocals and Guitar), Robert Anderson (Piano and Organ) and Breave (Bass). They have released 2 songs, Golden Key and Bodyheat.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Syndicate">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.