Synergy Protocol: The unity in a set of regulations.

We are talking about yet another Dutch female fronted metal band. But… this time we are talking about a truely progressive metal band with an 80’ies twist. Unlike so many other female fronted bands these days, Synergy Protocol first and foremost affiliates with bands like Dream Theater, Symphony X, Queensrÿche, Opeth and Ayreon.

So how is that progressive?

Well, the music contains a lot of stuff that makes it more complicated than absolutely necessary, like many, many, many signature changes, vocal harmonies and enchanting melodies. We don’t really know what is progressive about that, but that is how they call it anyway. The definition of metal is a lot easier: the distorted guitars are usually loud!

The 80’ies twist comes from early influences like Iron Maiden, Queen, Toto, Metallica and Rush. This is what clearly distinguishes the band from others.

During the first 18 months of their existence the vocals were taken care of by Laura Guldemond. After her sudden departure the band has been getting back to speed again with their amazingly talented new vocalist, Laura Martínez.

As always she will be supported by one of the biggest Dutch talents on drums: Patrick van Mourik; his double kick will make your earplugs melt. Mark Roelofs plays the guitar and takes care of the high pitch in the vocal harmonies. Maarten “Big M” Heeringa is the second guitarist / backing vocalist and together with Wim Smits (bass, ex-Jewel) brings in the experience.

With their first singer Synergy Protocol released their first demo in February 2014 and has performed over 40 shows all over the Netherlands, amongst others as a support for Stream of Passion and Vulture Industries on the main stages of De Boerderij and P60. They always manage to leave the audience with a smile on their face, due the humourous and unforgettable live-performance, which reputation is spreading fast understandibly.

In 2015 the band was first introduced to beyong the boardes for their first mini-tour: the band played the UK in April/May for 9 consecutive nights. Later in 2015 the band started recording their debut-CD, which was completed in 2016 and named "Odd to get even". 

Meanwhile they keep striving for entertaining as many people as possible all over the world, whether it is at festivals, clubshows or support slots.

Hence: Synergy Protocol! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Synergy+Protocol">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.