Tony Choy - Bass
Santiago Dobles - Guitars
Matt Thompson - Drums
Grant Petty - vocals
Arbise Gonzalez - keyboards


There is a new force of brutality that is currently brewing in Miami, FL. The members have worked feverishly to carve out their own unique niche within the metal scene and are soon ready to annihilate the masses worldwide. This group is SYNKRONIZITY who is led by acclaimed bassist Tony Choy (ex-Cynic, Atheist, Pestilence) and will soon deliver one of the most scathing debut albums the metal genre has yet to bear witness to in years, adhering to no preconceived notions and refusing to be pigeonholed into any specific genre. The group is rounded out by drumming sensation Matt Thompson (King Diamond) and guitar virtuoso Santiago Dobles (Aghora). The juxtaposition of each member's talents creates an explosive, yet exciting result that is sure to keep the entire scene on their toes and wondering just what is coming next.



SYNKRONIZITY is a band where quality of musicianship and experience allows the members to deliver a metal sound that is classic, yet new and innovative. It is definitely technical, but does so without losing the essence of the song. This is Progressive Rock fused with Latin Jazz to ultimately create a solid mix of powerful and ballsy death metal. Choy is one of the finest songwriters in the pop industry. Choy together with Dobles have allowed magic to come together and flow through their instruments as they composed this new material. This is a powerhouse band where each member on their own is a tremendous resource of experience and musical talent. Thompson brings precision timing and power behind his drumkit. He is an intuitive player who is full of groove and chops. Dobles is a progressive metal pioneer of the seven string guitar and delivers some of the best guitar work he has done yet to date. Also, the band has Arbise “motif” Gonzales on keyboards. He brings years of experience in the Pop world to the table as a keyboardist and programmer. This project is the future of extreme metal and you haven’t ever heard anything quite like it.



Tony Choy’s career started at a very young age. The Cuban born bass player, songwriter, producer and overall entrepreneur started his musical endeavor in Miami, FL beginning his crusade against conventional metal with some of the best technical metal icons. At 24 he decided to explore other forms of music tapping into his roots of Latin Rock and topical grooves. He played with many of Miami’s finest musicians and remains to this day a steady and successful session bassist and vocalist working with major names as Mexican legend Juan Gabriel and Salsa’s major singer Hueh Dumbar, among others. He also explored the world of electronic music earning a #3 peak spot on the Billboard dance charts. He plays a major part in Miami’s Area 305, the pop sensation that earned numerous Billboard awards as “Group of The Year” in Puerto Rico and even a Grammy nomination. Choy is definitely one of the most evolved and innovative musicians and obeys only one law, that passion is everything.



Matt Thompson started playing drums at age nine and turned professional at sixteen. He moved to Texas in 1992 and spent years playing country, blues, jazz, funk, metal and many other styles before enrolling at the University of North TX in 1996 to study with Ed Soph. One month after graduating college he joined metal legends King Diamond and has performed on four albums. Matt continues to be in demand around the world as a performer, studio artist and educator. He has earned two Grammy nominations ("Best Metal Performance" for King Diamond's Never Ending Hill and for "Best Polka Album" on Brave Combo'sPolka's Revenge).



Santiago Dobles is one of the few guitarists that have their crafted their own signature sound. He is known as a progressive and fusion metal guitarist. He began playing when he was just three years old and began formal lessons when he was eleven. He attended the renowned Berklee School of Music in Boston. He recorded and produced to full-length albums with his prog metal band Aghora with Sean Reinert (Cynic, Death). He is a professional studio session guitarist, seasoned engineer and producer in Miami, FL playing guitar in over a dozen of professional full-length releases in the pop, rock and metal genres all while producing and engineering music for professional television and radio. He has known Tony Choy for over 17 years due to their connection with the Miami music scene and are both working intensely on writing and producing SYNCHRONICITY to deliver a new death metal assault that will be ahead of its time.



In 2012, SYNKRONIZITY looks to continue paving new ground and expand into the mainstream, proving to the masses that there is none heavier on the planet. This is the new face of dominant brutality. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Synkronizity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.