System Divide is a melodic death metal band. Founded in Israel  and Belgium in 2008, SYSTEM DIVIDE quickly became a transnational project with in its rank vocalists Sven De Caluwe (Aborted) and Miri Milman (ex-Distorted), longtime friends Cole Martinez (ex Years Of Fire, Antenora), Andrew Lenthe (Antenora), and Mike Heller (Malignancy).
SYSTEM DIVIDE set out to revolutionize the conventions of the over-saturated melodic death metal genre, proving that extreme metal can have more depth than blast beats, while female vocals do not have to conform to the precepts of the “Goth” genre. In mixing many styles The Collapse , the band’s debut EP breaks all the rules of extreme metal and is a landmark release for the young band.

As opposed to interjecting simple, predictable clean choruses into contrived song structures, SYSTEM DIVIDE unites serene female vocals and extreme vocals driven by lyrical themes that confront and seek to break everyday themes of disillusionment, societal materialism, and individual apathy. Musically, the band delivers myriad styles of riffing and grooves, while augmenting the entrancing soundscapes with hard-hitting drums and intricate bass lines. These elements together define the unique, spell binding, hypnotic sound of SYSTEM DIVIDE.

In order to achieve this complex calculus of sounds on The Collapse, Cole Martinez handled tracking duties at Conquistador Recordings. Mixing and mastering duties were handled by Jacob Hansen (Aborted, HateSphere Volbeat) at Hansen Studios in Denmark in April and May 2009. Artwork for The Collapse was completed by Colin Marks (Strapping Young Lad, Aborted, Nevermore). The result is a sonic and visual masterpiece that metal has eagerly been waiting for.

he band recruited Joseph Spiller (ex-The Binary Code) as a second guitarist shortly after the release of THE COLLAPSE and continued writing for its first fullength, tentatively titled ‘Sterile’ due out early 2010. Under the banner of don’t break up a winning team, the band once again will record with producer/engineer Cole Martinez and mix with Jacob Hansen in Denmark. A video has been shot for ‘The Apex Doctrine’ by Kevin Custer (Hatebreed, Testament, Dope, Dying Fetus, Suffocation...) and should be aired from February 2010 on channels and the internet.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/System+Divide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.