System F is an alias of Ferry Corsten. 
The first single under the System F alias was "Out Of The Blue". This track was released in March 1999 on Tsunami, a label of Dutch record company Purple Eye. Ferry had already finished this track in 1998. Because he released some other tracks on Tsunami, he already had contact with Maykel Piron. After listening to the track, Maykel immediately signed the track.
Before the official release, some limited one-sided promo vinyls were send to a few DJs. The only information on this vinyl was a white label with a stamped mobile number and the text "Out of the Blue". Nick Warren (from Way Out West) and Pete Tong, the owner of Essential recordings, both received the vinyl. After listening, Nick Warren phoned Hooj Choons and they made an offer. Pete Tong of Essential recordings also made an offer. At some point Pete Tong said that he was going to Amsterdam and that Ferry and his manager should come to the airport to close the deal there. The deal was closed at Schiphol Airport, and some time later Pete flew back to the UK. "Out Of The Blue" was released worldwide on several labels. 

A year later, Ferry released the follow up, Cry. This track was produced together with Robert Smit. It was a vocal track. The vocals were done by Saskia Lie-Atjam. "Cry" was released in February 2000 on the Tsunami Label.
Later in 2000 the first System F album was released. On November 2000 the album Out Of The Blue was released on the Tsunami label. Ferry worked with some artists for the album, like Marc Almond and Armin van Buuren. With Marc he did Soul on Soul and with Armin he made Exhale. Marc Almond is known from Soft Cell. 
 
In 2001 Ferry made under the system f alias the dance valley theme. 
Also the Out the Blue album was re-released that year and it contained now the dance valley theme. 
Tracks like Solstice, Needlejuice, Soul on Soul and Exhale were all released on a single. In 2003 the track Spaceman was released on Tsunami Special Blend. Ferry released also the second System F album Together, but this was only for the japanese market. It was released on Avex trax. There was no european release, but some shops imported it. In this year ferry made a second track together with Armin van Buuren; From The Heart. This track was released on Armind and appeared also on armin's album 76. The last System F track was Ignition, Sequence, Start. First it was released on Avex Trax in 2003 and later on Tsunami in 2004.

Ferry made also some remixes under the system f alias. He made a remix for Yoji Biomehanika's track A Theme From Bangingglobe under the system f alias. There are also system f remixes from the tracks Connected and Kanariya from japanese singer Ayumi Hamasaki. 

Today Ferry no longer produces under the alias system f. Since 2003, after the second system f album, he decided to quit with all his aliasses (except gouryella, which he keeping) He produce now under his own name. He also left Tsunami in 2005 to start his own record company, Flashover Recordings. Maykel Piron, his former manager, has moved to armada.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/System+F">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.