There are multiple artists with the name Syzygy, including:

1. Syzygy was the name of an electronic music duo that recorded for Rising High Records and Infonet Records in the 1990s. Dominic Glynn and Justin Mackay produced a hybrid of techno, ambient and electronica culminating in the cult album "Morphic Resonance".

2. Syzygy are a progressive rock trio from Ohio USA, originally called Witsend, playing instrumental music in the vein of Porcupine Tree, Transatlantic, Flower Kings, Dream Theater. 

3. Syzygy were a four-piece instrumental progressive rock/metal band active in Perth, Western Australia between 1995 and 2004. The band recorded its only album 'Prominence' early in 1997, which featured eight tracks - Reversal, Sunrise, Infinite Odds, Cry of the Wolf, Flight 537, Mistaken Identity, Mercury's Tears and Atmosphere. Other popular tracks 'The Friars Lantern' and 'The Forgotten Rhyme' were not released on the debut album, although members of the band keep in touch and a later recording may eventuate. Drummer Damien Petrilli and guitarist Jarred Scagliotta still perform together in their latest band Evolution Machine.

4. Syzygy is forest psytrance project of Johan Hellqvist (Donkey Shot, Atishoo, Hallucinogenic Horses), Jens Eriksson (Purosurpo, Hallucinogenic Horses, Derango, Parallell Karusell) & Ola Eriksson (Derango, Hallucinogenic Horses, Kaabel, Øresund Space Collective).

5. Syzygy are a free jazz group from Wellington, New Zealand. Led by Jeff Henderson (saxophone). Other members included Paul Dyne (bass), Tom Callwood (bass), Noel Clayton (guitar), Joe Callwood (guitar), and Chris O'Connor (drums). Their album Tongue Grooves was released on Yellow Eye Records in 1997.

6.  Syzygy were an all-female rock band founded in 1981 in California, USA.

7. Syzygy is a former project of Monty Cime from California, USA. Monty has released the EP Spatial Awareness, played in the band Costco Boyfriend, and released multiple singles, before abandoning the project for their eponymous "Cime."

8. Syzygy are an American prog rock trio from Gainesville, Florida, USA.

9. Syzygy is a producer from Lille, France. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Syzygy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.