Szeg started in Debrecen, Hungary, made up of enthusiastic, but highly professional musicians (very good friends, by the way) playing in several other bands before. Members: Zsolt ‘Zsolti' Papp – vocal, Károly ‘Karesz' Patai – guitar, József ‘Jozsó' Bakos – bass and István ‘Pisti' Szilágyi – drums. It was the year of 1999. The band introduced itself with a 6-song demo titled Fit of Rage in 1999 and played in clubs in and around Debrecen in the first period. A next step, was recording a new demo album with 7 new songs in 2000. This new album hit the market with the title “New Creation”, including the songs of the previous ‘Fit of Rage' demo. Szeg could play more and more because of the good press reviews of New Creation, and the first videoclip was also recorded. The band had become more and more popular. The next few year were spent with a gradual increase of popularity and new songs. A new vocalist joined the group, and they recorded the ‘Gezbee Nights' maxi. This was the first work sent to several music portals and magazines all over the world – and the feedback was impressive. The hard work of the guys was awarded with a special possibility, to perform on the stages of Summer Rocks 2002 Festival, just before Slayer! This was definitely a landmark in the life of Szeg. The successful appearances on different festivals through the summer and a country-wide tour as a guest of Tankcsapda ( Hungary 's most popular rock band), were good adverts for new album out in April of 2003, titled ‘Nail in your Head'. Feedback from press and audience was more then very positive. New clips (‘Gezbee Nights' and ‘Fight for your Right') were recorded, and made available on Hungarian TV channels with success. Another Tankcsapda tour in the end of 2003 was an excellent opportunity to present the album to an even wider audience. The famous Hollywood director, Gábor Koltai's group recorded the final event of the tour. A new videoclip, ‘From Dusk till Dawn' was completed by Gábor Koltay and his crew. Thanks to the efforts of increasing international presence, the band got a new chance: the American Activision Ltd. bumped into the band and liked its music so much, that they decided to use the music of Szeg for a console game! So, the background music of Monster Garage (a PC adaptation of Discovery Channel program) contains 10 songs of the ‘Nail in Your Head' album. It was sold in 150.000 copies in US, and 10.000 copies in Sweden., and other European launches are planned in the near future. Szeg went through significant changes in the beginning of 2004, the two vocalists left the band. A new face joined, Attila Törös, playing the bass, and Jozsó grabbed the microphone. The latest achievement of Szeg is a 4-song EP, which is also a celebration of the 5 th birthday of the band. The great songs generated great review – and a currently they work on a new videoclips, in cooperation with Pixelfilm. And the console game carrier is not over, it received a new push by Project 3 Interactive , a Dutch publisher who decided to use Szeg songs in its new release: Cross Racing Championship. With this game, Szeg will reach new people in Russia , Australia , South-Africa , Israel and other countries of Europe. After more and more country-wide shows the band has written their new record titled "Szeg II.". This album released by hungarian HammerWorld label in October, 2005. 
In 2006 their singer, Jozsó has left the band and a new singer has come. His name is Jozsef Todonai. The band has formed newly and they've recorded a new song "Tisztán a cél felé", and created its video. After some shows with other hungarian bands they finished their tour on Sziget Festival 2007, Hammer stage. This was the last show in 2007. 
Early 2008 they've started to write their new record, and 8 new songs has done. They are recording their new album now. The drum tracks are ready, the album release will in October, 2008. The new album title is unknown. The new album is strongly recommened to metalheads, who likes for example the Exodus's, Testament's, Slayer's music.
Local achievements: First tour with Tankcsapda (the most famous hungarian rock band) Summer Rocks 2002 w./ Slayer , Blind Myself, Cadaveres de Tortugas StageDiving Fest Tour Hungary 2003 w./ Ektomorf , Replika Second tour with Tankcsapda (Nail in your Head LP promotion tour in 16 city of Hungary) 
International Achievements: Brazilian and European feedback of Gezbee Nights maxi Activision – Monster Garage (including 10 songs of Nail in your Head LP) Cross Racing Championships computer game (including 4 for songs of Here we go EP). Release: Israel, South-Africa, Europe, United States, Russia, Australia 20th May, 2005.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Szeg">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.