1) A three-man noise/grindcore project formed in the confines of Poynton Sixth Form in 2006 by three students, Chris 'Chakra' Mole (also in Northern Oak and Judgement), Carl 'Carknagar' Aspinall (also in Viperous and Southern Jukebox Attack) and Matt 'Executioner' Jones (also in Judgement).

T.A.N.K has developed over time from an attempt to make as much horrible noise as humanly possible into a skip which the members throw all the abstract parts of their musical experience; whenever you think "Hey, wouldn't it be great to do a song about *insert fucking stupid idea here*", T.A.N.K exists at the divergence where you followed that thought with "Yes, totally, let's do it.".  As such, the material has been somewhat varied; death metal, grindcore, funk, music that wouldn't be out of place in a porn film, prog, classical, choral, videogame soundtracks.  Nothing is beyond the musical reach of T.A.N.K.

At the present T.A.N.K are working on several projects, which are approaching completion; a 2D SNES-style RPG with a neo-classical, baroque soundtrack entirely composed and recorded by them using the finest orchestra money can buy, and their next top-secret recorded work, which will be different from everything else they have tried their hand at before. 

At the same time as all this, the band have released their latest masterwork, a blackened-porno-death-grind concept album entitled ‘Vaginal Faeces Implosion’. Telling a harrowing tale of loneliness, despair, and the slide into mental decay and depravity of today's young generation, wrapped up (like a chipolata) in some furious, pounding death metal and laced with the crack-cocaine that is pornography sound-effects, this is an album set to irrevocably change the face of death metal and grind forever.

Or, y'know, just fade into obscurity like 98% of the rest of the world. Whatever.

Songwriting has also tentatively begun for the band’s next evolutionary album, at this moment known only as ‘T.A.N.K II’.

While not updated regularly, their official site is located at www.myspace.com/anorexicnoodle.  They also have a more substantial presence on Facebook, at www.facebook.com/pages/TANK/102742846436059.

2) T.A.N.K is a French band born at the beginning of the year 2007 from the ashes of a black/brutal death band. The two remaining guitarists EDD and SYMHERIS (Symheris solo, S-Project, ex Polaris), decide to raise a new line up with the perspective to offer a music both inspired by thrash and melodic death metal.

Then at the end of 2007,T.A.N.K is completed with the arrival of Raf on vocals (K.A, ex Admiral’s Arms), OLIV’ on bass (Crystal Wall, ex 101) and Clem on drums (Sihia, Sarkazein, One-Way Mirror,…).

T.A.N.K’s music is a real shell where the aggressive side goes along melodic and technical aspects in the service of the roughest and tortured feelings.

After a first Cd, very welcomed by the press, (the band is elected as new band of december for ROCK HARD Magazine), recorded in April 2007 at Studio Sainte-Marthe in Paris (Aqme(/artist], Lazy, Zuul FX, Flying Pooh, Ed Ake, Small, The Arrs, Sna-Fu, Dysfunctional By Choice), the band goes back in studio in order to record a featuring with Zuul and Aurel from Zuul FX which figures on FRENCH METAL’s compilation.

Then, the band shares many concerts with famous bands such as Dagoba or Misanthrope. T.A.N.K realise its first videoclip (Brother In Arms) for French horror movie Survivant(s), of Vincent Lecrocq with Alysson Paradis.

In April 2009, T.A.N.K is going to record its first album! STAY TUNED!

http://www.myspace.com/tgmetal <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/T.A.N.K">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.