“TAR remind me a bit of very early Howards Alias with a bit more aggression. There’s definitely a vocal similarity anyway. This is their debut EP and this record shows plenty of promise. It’s really fun, well produced and has plenty of interesting songs. ‘Mistaken’, for example, is fast and free-flowing and really has a bit of bite to the sound. There’s plenty of energy here - a bit like NoComply at times - and I imagine this would transfer well to the live arena. This band are certainly worth an inspection.” - Punktastic.com

T.A.R is a Punk Rock band from South East Kent. The band was first formed in early 2004 with Aaron, Chester, Gillard, Twiggy and Matt Davey on Trombone. After a day’s recording that May, they hit the local band circuit by the summer of that year playing as an instrumental 5-piece in various venues in their home town, selling copies of their first, self-titled demo CD.

It wasn’t before long that they were approached by vocalist Joel Harber, who joined the band shortly, with Aaron and Chester taking backing vocals. After only 3 gigs (including the bands biggest gig to date at the Folkestone Leas Cliff Hall to over 500 people), the decision was made to get rid of Joel, and Chester was to take the role of lead vocals, with Aaron taking a much stronger role as backing vocals. Everyone agreed that this worked a lot better, but with their new style of song writing, it still wasn’t quite right, so after much consideration, the decision was made to cut down to a 4-piece with the loss of Matt on Trombone.

With the new 4-piece lineup ready in mid-2005, they went back to the studio to record 2 songs in their new style (‘Is This Your Solution?’ & ‘Now and Then’) that were to appear on a split EP with local Punk band Meltinpik. However, due to Meltinpik’s split halfway through their recordings, the 2 tracks were never released, and found their place once again as a demo. With this 2-track demo, and an increasingly tight relationship as musicians, the band started to gig more and their fanbase began to grow, with talk of tours with various bands and potential promotions deals. After a while, various factors got in the way of the band and the decision was made to split in the summer of 2006. Their last show of the time was to be back at the Leas Cliff Hall with Jesse James and local heroes Battleska Galactica to their second largest crowd yet.

Having had much time off of the band to get things back together, the 4-piece began to jam together again that winter, and with a noticibly better attitude from everyone towards the music, the decision was made to reform, and with a mix of old favourites and new material, the band went back to Hidden Track Studio to record their first proper release - ‘Is This Your Solution?’ Having spent much time and effort getting the exact sound they had wanted, the 7-track EP was finished in early 2007. To properly mark a new era of the band, the addition of band-friend, Max Tilson on Guitar was made, allowing Twiggy to incorperate Keyboards into the music. With the new 5-piece lineup, the band sound fuller than ever and took on their first nationwide tour the summer of 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/T.A.R">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.