T.O.K., the Jamaican dancehall group, was created 1996 by  Xavier Davidson,  Craig Thompson, Alistaire McCalla and  Roshaun Clarke. They were best known för hits as 'Footprints', 'Gal You Ah Lead', 'Chi Chi Man', 'Eagles Cry', 'Guardian Angel', 'Money 2 Burn', 'Hey Ladies', 'The Voice', and 'I Believe'. Described by the New York Times as "the world's greatest dancehall boy band", T.O.K. were popular over a decade. The success was partly a result of their different voices. Their first album, My Crew, My Dawgs (2001), made Top 10 in the Billboard Top Reggae Album Chart and got platinum status in Japan. Their song "Chi Chi Man" was controversial for its lyrics about murdering gays. T.O.K. refused to sign the Reggae Compassion Act. In 2015 the group split up.
    –    –    –    –    – 

1. Alistaire Mc Calla, Roshaun Clarke, Craig Thompson and Xavier Davidson make up the Jamaican dancehall crew, known as T.O.K (a.k.a Touch Of Klass).

Straight from Jamaica, T.O.K has emerged as dancehall's hottest foursome. The band, made up of Alex, Flexx, Bay-C and Craigy T, have shown their true strength with their sophomore VP Records set.

The group started out in high school doing R'n'B covers, and it was only a matter of time before they began to blend hardcore dancehall into their music to create their trademark style. After building a fan base on their home island, the group was recognised in the U.S. with their 2001 debut album "My Crew, My Dawgs," which peaked at No. 6 on Billboard's Top Reggae Albums chart.

With singles such as "Gal You Ah Lead", T.O.K has become a crossover hit. The single has re-introduced the group to fans both stateside and abroad, as the world's current fascination with dancehall continues to grow. T.O.K sees it as their duty to "continue doing more quality songs that everybody loves to sing because more eyes are on us and the whole dancehall fraternity on a whole," says Flexx. "We hope that our fans will see that we have grown as artists," says Bay-C. "We will be around for a very long time."
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/T.O.K.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.