In celebration of music from all over the world, the Taalbi Brothers bring NYC street percussion, spirited gypsy beats, wild chord changes fueled by classical music, and powerful melodies honoring legends of the guitar.

The Taalbi Brothers are energizing in their musical presence (despite adolescence in age and stature), and create the raw, awakening music made possible by the bonds of blood. This inspiration allows for the Mediterranean ancestry and new millennium youthfulness of the Taalbi Brothers to emerge from their songs, shattering all typical shades of Flamenco-inspired guitar performance.

The Taalbi Brothers story begins with long winters in the basement of their midwest home, and having access to enough musical instruments to spare. Born and raised in Madison, Wisconsin, Bronson and Preston Taalbi (ages 17 & 15 respectively) are the youngest of a family in love with music.

Growing up with 7 older siblings, most of the brothers hand-me-downs came in the form of the musical genre. Two of the eldest sisters shared a passion for piano concertos and hardcore punk rock, an older brother teaching and performing as a drummer locally in styles ranging from metal to drum corps to funk, and another sister strongly associated with the local hip-hop stage. On any given night, random music was played throughout the house constantly, in one room, traditional arabic instrumentals, and the next door down, the Backstreet Boys.

The Taalbi Brothers adore hardcore punk, Mediterranean guitar, & classic rock. This is apparent in the extreme tempos they reach at live performances and their rock-driven riffs and song structures. As a result, the Taalbi Brothers produce fast-paced and rhythmic acoustic instrumentals.

Shortly after a few performances on Madison's infamous downtown State Street in 2009, the Taalbi Brothers visited their older, relocated brother in Santa Monica, CA, and performed nearby on the sidewalk on the 3rd Street Promenade. The Taalbi Brothers were discovered & signed to a guitar endorsement on the spot by Jon Thomas, Director of the innovative nylon string guitar company, CÓRDOBA GUITARS (endorsees include One Republic, Donavon Frankenreiter, The Gipsy Kings, The Decemberists, and Timmy Curran). In the last two years, the Taalbi Brothers have performed at local & national conferences, charities, parties & fundraisers, they have walked the red carpet in Hollywood, and they have performed at 8,000ft elevation in the ESPN Winter X Games in Aspen, CO, traveling across the country a dozen times over.

Most recently, the Taalbi Brothers placed their very first song written in 2009, "Freestyle", in the season 4 finale of AMC Television's Emmy® Award-Winning drama Breaking Bad, accomplishing 2:30 of constant airplay to millions of viewers.

The future forecast for the Taalbi Brothers will confirm that it is not only their musical influences that inspire them to rule their fret boards and maintain academic excellence, but the infinite support from their family and an international commitment to sharing a love for the world's music.

www.taalbibrothers.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Taalbi+Brothers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.