Present members Mark and Mathew, together with ex-guitarist Threat, formed Taedeat in July, 2002. Azogh joined in on vocals for the second rehearsal session and after recording their first demo under the band name Surrounded By All, Calvin was recruited to complete the line-up.

Shortly thereafter, Threat left the band to pursue other projects and after a few sessions and gigs, with Embracing guitarist Ronnie covering Threat's place, Azogh picked up the guitar and the quartet was made solid. After heavy rehearsing and composing, the band (now renamed Taedeat) was pushed into the studio by manager Lisa Magnusson, and the recording of their debut album took place. The CD was unleashed late April 2004.

We Bring the Fourth marks the first step in this relatively young band's journey and the music takes the listener through eight tracks of satanic mayhem. The composition of songs is melodic yet brutal, reminiscent of the late At the Gates and The Crown. The vocals range between trash-style screaming and all-out growling. The appearance of a vast collection of guest-musicians from bands such as Embracing, Naglfar, Bewitched and Nocturnal Rites adds even more weight to an already massive production. Directly after the release of the album, Azogh moved away from the bands home town and the planned promotion tour was unfortunately put on hold indefinitely.

In April 2005 the band once more gathered for a week and entered the Dimrakk Studio, in their hometown Umeå, to record a new demo-CD, and the result is what can be found on Quademortis. After that, the work accelerated and despite the great distance between members of the band, material was written at great speed. In November, Azogh moved back to Umeå from an 18 months self-induced exile in the U.K. and rehearsal for their new album began. In January, the quartet stood ready to enter Starfruit Studios in their hometown to record the 16 (!) new tracks. Once again, members from Naglfar and Nocturnal Rites, plus a number of other artists, joined them for the recording. As the album was mixed and mastered by former member Ronnie, it was decided that he would once again join the band and unload the guitar from Azogh's shoulders. The band chose to press the album themselves under a community-label named Sheol Records to be able to present it to record companies in a solid promotion package.

Quademonium bares the fruits of hardship, determination and dedication, and the result cannot be mistaken. The 16 tracks presented are an explosion of rage and aggression, no longer brought forward in a satanic message, but rather directed against any and all human life. With this album, Taedeat invites to a journey towards the ultimate destruction of mankind. It is strongly recommended that you accept their offer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Taedeat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.