There are more artists with this name.

1) A Melo Death/Thrash Metal band from New Zealand, who generated strong interest during the various tours of the South Island, notably with Sinate. The release of their album "The Awakening" in April 2006 has established them as a major pillar of the NZ metal scene, definitely unleashing a vast amount of energy during their live performances.Since then, Tainted have released one other album, Carved and Created (released in 2008), with such tracks like, 'Departed' and 'Beneath the Veneer' which has given Tainted the prestige they deserve.In 2009,Tainted Opened for Iron Maiden.

Current Line-Up
Vocals - Slim
Drums - Leith
Bass - Sean
Guitar - Tim
Guitar - Linly 

2) Fundamentally rythmical, simply melodical, that..s the way how to characterize music of this band From Czech Republic. There is no concrete style however TAINTED..s music is close to crossover, metal, hc, industrial and gothic style. Experimenting with rock styles led to crossover which TAINTED called Insudtrial core. 
Summed up: simple music with an airy part of drum..s and sharp guitar riffs that are coloured by synthesizer and english lyrics. The band production is influented by an electronical and also by a purely guitar music. All these styles are leisurely compacted and there is no endeavour to be pseudooriginal, so an attractiveness of a music..s simplicity is sustained. A band..s place of work is club and festival scene.
Members:
KubajZz (Jakub Nimmrichter) - Vocals 
Wendee (Vašek Kalbáč) - Drums
Martini (Martin Kalbáč) - Guitar
Twiggi (Radka Janíčková) - Keyboard

3) Energy and experience.  Power and passion.  Heavy and honest.  Welcome to the world of TAINTED.  It's a world of heart-pounding rock, where a couple Americans and a couple Canucks are known to Middle America as more than another bar band.  More than just another forgettable night at the pub. 

After a busy summer headlining regional shows, supporting national acts like One Less Reason, Stereoside and Warrant, and joining festivals like the Crossroads of America Bike Rally, the guys have wound down their live appearances and gearing up to record a full-length follow up to their EP "Bridging the Gap".  

2007 also saw TAINTED's "Distracted" released as the first track on the Kansas City Rockers For Life compilation CD from iLLUMINA Records out of Boston.

And while the band is hard at work in preproduction on the upcoming album, they're building on their history of delivering heavy, passionate rock to new fans.  A history that includes sharing the stage with acts such as Allele, Dope, The Accident Experiment [with Marcos Curiel of POD], and Hypnogaja, and Warrant.  And the guys are always looking forward.  Always striving to "rock on".

With an underlying theme of the need for humanity to unite, TAINTED's musical message is driven into the eardrum.  When you hear their music, it's apparent these guys mean to grab your attention with heavy rock that's both raw and refined.  With a recipe of rockin' riffs and hook-laden harmonies, TAINTED is determined to make their mark.

TAINTED's contemporary influences include acts like Seether, Staind, their good friends in Signum, Breaking Benjamin, Sevendust, Disturbed, and Dark New Day. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tainted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.