"TakeNOnoticE", (Take No Notice, Tnn) a metal band formed by Jimbo & Guy Glick in Hadera, IL in 2005, In 2005. Glick - a new bass player is looking for musicians to play with. He finds Jimbo via the internet, a 14 year old who has been playing classic guitar for the past two years. After a short meeting, "Take No Notice" is formed under the name "Stainless". A couple of days after it, two people join the band, Jimbo's friends: Nick Lopishko – Rhythm guitar and Tal Litvak – Lead Vocals. With the two new members, Tnn writes their first two songs, "Metal Room" and "Don't Be Afraid" - simple, catchy ballads. In 2006, the band tries to create some music with a couple of demo records and an amateur home-made video clip for "Metal Room". After a while, for professional reasons, Glick and Jimbo decide to kick out Lopishko and Litvak, and look for the right members to join. In 2007 Tnn desperately looks for players, after an experiment with a guitarist, Shay Rivkin, and a drummer, Koren Clop, that ends pretty quickly with no results. After a while they find a new rhythm guitarist, David Pinhas and a drummer, Yoav. Tnn is finally complete and active, has a lot of rehearsals and writes new material. The guitarist, Pinhas writes the main riffs for "Dark Vision" and "Synthetic Darkness". Yet again, something is not right. Yoav leaves the band because of geographical issues; Pinhas says that the genre is just not for him and leaves the band as well. Tnn shuts down for a while again, for lack of members. Meanwhile Glick and Jimbo write a lot of new material together. Glick decides to change an instrument, and goes on to be the rhythm guitarist instead of the bassist. After a while Glick finds Raziel, a bass player, while at the same time, Jimbo finds a drummer, Ofer Tzur. The band plays a lot, becomes active again, and after the first performance of the band, in 2008, Jimbo finds out that Tal Litvak has improved his vocal range. A few performances later, the band decides that it's better off without him after all. After a while, Raziel sees a flier for a gig in Tel Aviv, where one of the bands performing is "Stainless". Obviously, a band with the same name in the same area code, is too much so the decision to change the name comes pretty quick. In a completely random matter, the name "Take No Notice" is chosen. In 2008 things become complicated when Glick joins the IDF (Israeli Defense Force), but the band keeps together and is doing as much meetings and rehearsals as possible. 2009, Raziel joins the army as well, but still the band tries to remain as active as possible, and has its first self organized big performance with 2 bands of a relatively large scale in Israel, Onoma and Demented Sanity. In 2010 Tnn records it's first single, and by the end of the year, Jimbo joins the army as well, but the band continues to be active.

TakeNOnoticE's influences:
Lamb of god, Megadeth, Metallica, dream theater, Meshuggah, Trivium, Jimmy Hendrix, Pink Floyd, Pantera, Children of bodom, norther, sepultura, and many more 

Songs can be downloaded for free at their official website, www.takenonotice.com. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Take+No+Notice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.