(Taken from TAKEOVER'S myspace)
TAKEOVER was an extremely hard working metal band, that faced many changes, proving the bands inner strength during the years they were together, it was proven by the dedication to their craft. This band prided themselves on their intense work ethic & energetic stage show!

"The experience of one of TAKEOVER's performances was more like a full contact sport than a concert. Says, Salm Jordan Spokesmans Review. With dance floors & pits filled to capacity w/ hundreds of diehard fans spilling their blood and sweat for the band at every local and regional show.

Started in the early winter of 2004 by George Silva (guitar, melodic vocals & backing screams) well known from, the Spokane Wa. based infamous, metal band, Five Foot Thick. Scotty Martin (bass guitar) formerly of Spokane Wa. based bands Bled By Design IDK & The ENDUSTRY. Greg Daily (vocals, resident heart breaker and round houses) who was also in the Spokane based band Ambeo. BJ Sampson formerly of the Spokane WA. Based bands Ties That Bind, Neither Be Affraid, Endswell & Suffice, And completing the all star line up was rookie drummer extrordinare Seth Folgelman. The band ultimately went through alot of member changes over the years including: Drummers Silas Mc Quain(Five Foot Thick, London Get Down) who recorded "The Brutality Process" album w/ the band, Scott Muppet Walker (Accross The Sun, Syx, American Me) who did the only extensive touring the band ever did, Justin Solinas (Inked In Blood, Scars Of Tomorrow, The Hollowed) Danny Passara (Rose Moyer, Drop Dead Gorgeous,Upon Beauty Rests) and we ended up w/ our longest lasting and most dedicated drummer and a great addition to the final line up, who was with the band for a year, until the end, Ryan Folden(Dear Jane, The Agony Scene)...also we had Kris Demers (Five Foot Thick) on Bass for a short stint who did the only extensive touring the band ever did...But ultimately ended up w/ our brother and bass player extreme Pat Stookey (Riverside, Level,The Hollowed) After the departure of BJ Sampson, we added guitarist and permanent staple til the end, Matt Roberts(Ambulence For Angeles, It Prevails) He recorded The Brutality Process album and did all of the extensive touring the band ever did, his stint in the band lasted over a year an a half, he was one of the most dedicated and long lasting members & a very loved member of the TKO family not to mention a very talented guitarist. Leaving singer Greg Daily and Guitarist/Melodic Vocalist George Silva as the only 2 original members left in this ever changing line up!

Putting all things in the past aside every member of TAKEOVER tried very hard to make the band their number one priority. This ambitious, all star band, combined cut throat guitars, blood curdeling screams, beautifully sang melodies, soul gripping beats and heart stopping breakdowns, that left the most ferocious dance floors and pits begging for more.

TAKEOVER prided themselvs on a sound that was mostly fuled on old school metal influence, as well as influence from the top rung of the metal and hardcore scenes of today. TAKEOVER accomplished alot of things many bands only dream of including playing w/ many national bands such as: HELL YEAH W/ VINNIE FREKIN PAUL OF PANTERA!!! As I Lay Dying, All That Remains, Scars Of Tomorrow, Chimaira, The Chariot, Sworn Enemy, The Bled, 36 Crazy Fists, Evergreen Terrace, Bury Your Dead, Strapping Young Lad, Himsa, Silverstein, He Is Legend, 3 Inches Of Blood, The Agony Scene, Manntis, Misery Signal, Greeley Estates, Bright Lit City, Protest The Hero, Catherine, Thousand Foot Crutch, Clear Convictions, Scarlet, Underminded, As Cities Burn, Nodes Of Ranvier, Kane Hodder, Claymore, Inked In Blood, Clifton, Apiairy, Lahar, Brutal Fight, HED(pe), Countdown To Life, and Reflux, With over 1000 copies of their self titled EP. sold over the 2 year period and almost 500 copies of The Brutality Process sold between the release in April 2007 and the bands break up in late July 2007. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Takeover">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.