The Israeli pianist Yaara Tal and her German partner Andreas Groethuysen are forming one of the worldwide leading piano duos. While working on their solo careers they discovered that their musical talents match perfectly well when they play together as a duo. In consequence they dedicated themselves especially to highly demanding compositions for one piano four-hands and found an unanimously enthusiastic echo by public and press.

The Duo Tal & Groethuysen is performing at so prominent venues as the Concertgebouw Amsterdam, the Philharmonies Berlin, Cologne and Munich, Teatro alla Scala Milano, Musikhalle Hamburg, Hongkong Arts Festival, Frick Collection New York, Forbidden City Concert Hall Peking, Piano-Festival La Roque d´Anthéron, Musikverein Vienna, Tonhalle Zürich etc., to name only a few.

June 2005 the duo went on tour through several countries in Latin America for celebrations of 40 years of German-Israeli diplomatic relations. 

The highlights of 2006 will include a series of three Mozart recitals in the Berlin Konzerthaus and a Mozart recital at the Salzburger Festspiele.

The exclusive cooperation with the record company SONY CLASSICAL makes up an important part of their international success: Both artists have released numerous recordings (partly as world premiere recordings like those of pieces by Carl Czerny, Max Reger, Felix Mendelssohn, Theodore Gouvy), many of which received the "Prize of the German Critic". In 1997 they completed the worldwide first integral recording of Franz Schubert's piano compositions for four hands, a series of 7 CDs which won the "Echo"-Prize of the German Phono Academy and the Cannes Classical Award 1998. Recent releases of the duo again include several world premiere recordings: four-hand piano transcriptions of pieces by Richard Wagner; the pieces for two pianists by Charles Koechlin ("Echo"-Prize 2001); "Children´s Corner" ("Prize of the German Critic" 2002); "Inspiration & Adoration" (pieces by Robert Schumann and Johannes Brahms) and Max Reger II ("Prize of the German Critic" 2004). In March 2006 the third and last volume of an integral recording of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart´s pieces for two pianists was released, the first of it was honoured by the "Echo"-Prize 2005 for the best recording of chamber music.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tal+&+Groethuysen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.