There are more than one artist with this name:

1) Tal Benyerzi (born in Israel in 12 December 1989), professionally known by her mononym Tal, is an Israeli-born French singer-songwriter and occasional dancer. She is currently signed to Warner Music France.

Tal's family immigrated to France when Tal was just under a year old. Her name translates roughly as "morning dew" in Hebrew. She was born into a veritable musical home. Her father was a guitar player, her Yemeni-Jewish mother a professional singer under the name Sem Azar. Her brother is a songwriter and her aunt and cousin singers.
At the age of 12, Tal learned to play piano and guitar and enrolled in dance lessons and modern jazz. She also took part in a theater group called "Les Sales Gosses". She started playing in piano bars making interpretations of classics and contemporary songs. As a fan of Michael Jackson, she and her brother improvised moves on a collection of his songs. Her debut song and music video was with "La Musique mon ange".
Her meeting with songwriter and producer L'Aura Marciano developed her career and after a collaboration of 2 years, she released her debut album Le droit de rêver with pop melodies, urban rhythm and at times classical arrangements. Collaborations included Sean Paul in "Waya Waya" mixed by Veronica Ferraro, L'Algérino in a remake "Le sens de la vie" and John Hanes as sound engineer.
Her first single from the album was "On avance" reached #29 in SNEP, the official French Singles Chart. That was followed by "Waya Waya". Her biggest hit was "Le sens de la vie" taken from the album. It reached #4 in the French charts. The album also contains a bonus version of the song featuring French-Algerian L'Algérino as a bonus track. Her songs deliver a message of hope and peace, without religious or cultural barriers, and a French music without boundaries.
Tal remains involved in charity. She was the spokesman for MTV's campaign for support of the French AIDS charity Sidaction.
In 2013, Tal joined the Les Enfoires charity ensemble. Tal also won her first NRJ Music Award in 2013, as the Francophone Breakthrough of the Year.
In September 2013, she joined the 4th season of Danse avec les stars (French Dancing with the Stars), with dance partner Yann-Alrick Mortreuil.

2) Tal is an alias of German electronic musician Wolfgang Voigt, co-founder and co-owner of Kompakt.

3) TAL is Natalie Chami, a Chicago based experimental, drone artist, also in the band Good Willsmith and l'éternèbre. www.talsounds.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.