Talamyus was created in 2002 by the St-Jean brothers (Benoît - guitar/vocals and Dany - bass) with the firm intention of developing their own original style; an hybrid of their personal influences, mainly Thrash, Death and Viking Metal... Something that, at the time, was never really approached nor experimented with by any local bands in their home town of Montréal.

After several attempts in finding the right drummer to complete the very first Talamyus line-up, luck finally stroke when Jean-Philippe Latour (drums) offered his services. The band started jamming right away and after giving various local concerts, the band entered Studio En-Phase (Jean-Philippe's studio) in January of 2005, to record the band's very first album entitled "As Long As It Flows...", which was later on licensed to local indie label GWN Records.

In August of 2005, Nicolas Vincent joined the band to add a second guitar.

Various shows followed locally. Then in late 2007, ex-DEATHROW drummer Jonathan Herbst was enlisted to fill the void left by Jean-Philippe, who left the band for personal matters. The move proved to be beneficial, instantly bringing the band to a higher level of musicianship.

Hitting back studio En-Phase for the band's second album entitled "In These Days of Violence". The new material showcases a giant leap in originality, production and musicianship. The band's style slowly shifting to more of a Viking Metal approach while still keeping its Thrash Metal overtones.

The new album was released through a licensing deal with the new Montréal based label PRODISK. The new album, distributed by FUSION 3 in Canada, received a lot of airplay, topping charts on various radio shows Canada-wide. The band launched the new album opening for FINNTROLL, in front of 1200 fist banging and chanting local kids, instantly putting the band on the map once and for all as a band worthy of local and international attention.

2008 started strong with the band supporting KALMAH on their first ever Canadian tour. This tour was a total success for the band, both financially and promotion-wise, opening the door to more shows all over the province. The band closed the book on the year 2008 with a 15 shows Québec / Ontario / Maritimes tour, supporting Brazilian legends KRISIUN (the last show of the tour opening the second night of the Trois-Rivières Metal Fest, in front of more than 700 metal fans!) and a one last Montréal gig, supporting ex-label mates PROFUGUS MORTIS's return to a headlining show in Montréal.

While all these projects are in motion, guitar player Nicolas Vincent left the band in mid-2008... After several months of intense search for the right member and several shows made with a session guitar player, the guys found their man in early 2009: Enters new guitar player Nikolai Olekhnovitch, who's talent and drive fits perfectly with the band...

www.talamyus.com
www.myspace.com/talamyus
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Talamyus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.