Tall Heights is an American electro-folk duo based in Boston, MA. The group formed in 2009 and consists of singer/guitarist Tim Harrington and singer/cellist Paul Wright. Recent touring has also featured percussionist/singer Paul Dumas.

In the summer of 2010, Harrington and Wright were playing for spare change in Boston’s Faneuil Hall Marketplace. In two short years since, Tall Heights has headlined packed listening rooms across New England, toured down to Austin, TX to showcase at South By Southwest Music Festival, and performed alongside national acts like David Wilcox, Ryan Montbleau, and Andrew Belle.

For the duo’s debut full-length effort, Man of Stone (May, 2013), Tall Heights returned to the home studio, sinking deeper into the vast world they’ve meticulously built for two. The title track and first single, Man of Stone, recalls a time when cavemen documented day-to-day existence on the walls of their stone-sheltered dwellings. “Emblems of cavemen they taught me / the importance of typing in bold,” contextualizes the rest of the record and challenges a careful listener to view each song as a vital documentation of what is both banal and extraordinary. The record exists in a fire-lit, shadowy space for their growing army of fans to inhabit. After two powerful EPs, Rafters (2011) and the Running of the Bulls EP (2012), there has been a growing cry for more from these young artists, and Tall Heights delivers with an LP of grand vision and scale.

RECENT PRAISE
“Tall Heights’s delicate melodies and gentle harmonies create a rare public space where the people can slow down, even stop, and suspend the chaos of city life in exchange for some really great music.”-Meghna Chakrabarti, NPR

“if you still remember how happy your ears were when you first listened to Bon Iver or Arcade Fire and realized you’d stumbled into singer/songwriter oblivion… you can trust me when I say this show is worth seeing.” – Boston Magazine

“…beautiful harmonies, exquisite musicianship, intricate songwriting. I love it when the bar is set so high” –David Wilcox <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tall+Heights">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.