Talsur — doom metal one-man band from Penza, Russia. Formed in October 11th, 2015 by the only member Vitaly Surkov. In the December the debut album Tuonela was released. The band does not perform, preferring studio activities. Each album performs different subgenres of doom metal. On March 26th, 2016 released second full-length album Wings of Azrael, and in the next month — EP Angerdoom. These works help to project to find European auditory. In June Talsur released third LP Inanitas where he combines stoner influences and rude distorted sound.
The most productive year in Talsur's career is 2017. In January came out Slough of Despond — the forth album which became the most commercially successful though it has funeral doom influences. Then in July he released EP Offertorium which many listeners admit as one of the best works of project. Then came stoner single Medieval Hero in September and the new EP The Gates released in December.
In the beginning of 2018 Talsur released first official video for the track Barely Breathing from The Gates EP. In July came out Tormented — the album where where is particularly pronounced influence of Peaceville Three, especially My Dying Bride. Lyrical themes are about fear and struggling with Fate. Also this album is first with the guest. Parts of violin were recorded by Sofia Strazhkova. Unused themes from album Talsur collected in the next EP Exiled.
In 2019 were released a split Nameless with Dutch doom metal project Doomcult. On this release Talsur recorded two brand new songs and cover version of the Doomcult's song "Wrath".
The most recent release of Talsur is sixth full-length album Eversleep. It was released on October 31st, 2019. This LP has more soft sound than previous, more similar to Anathema and Type O Negative. Texts are focused on sleep, nature and love. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Talsur">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.