There is more than one artist under this name:

1. TAM is a Japanese musician specialized in classical arranges of videogame music (mostly from the Touhou game series, but also games like Final Fantasy or visual novels like AIR or CLANNAD). He's skilled with a wide variety of instruments, ranging from piano to violin, or various kinds of wind instruments.
TAM is the frontman and producer of doujin music circle TAMUSIC.

2. Tam (田村和男, Tamura Kazuo), also written タム, was the guitarist of Japanese punk rock band ザ・スターリン (The Stalin) from 1981 to 1983. He was also the sole runner of ADK Records and played guitars for チフス (Typhus) and G-ZET. He released two albums as a solo artist.

3. Tam, the band — which also includes bassist J.P. Quintin, drummer Eloi Bertholet and bassist Johnny Souranis — is not exactly a solo project. And Tam Isabel Pardo, the band’s singer and guitarist, is not exactly new to music. In the early 1990s, she started playing in Montreal with Swing Dynamique, in “big band orchestra” style, led by Mike King (who later committed suicide). After switching over to rock, she formed another band in Montreal (Peter Boucher, the band’s drummer, later committed suicide as well). Tam went to Manchester, England; after returning to Montreal, she formed The Vampires, with Andy Nesvadba (who has since moved back to his native Prague). In 2006, Tam was signed to Thurston Moore's (of Sonic Youth) label Ecstatic Peace!.

4. TAM (João Santos) is an electronic music DJ and producer from Porto, Portugal.
Producing since 2003, Tam began developing his own ideas in 2004, using the possibilities offered by electronics and digital means. His working method is very simple: recording/sampling the analogical sound of musical instruments and reworking them afterwards digitally.
The sounds presented are intensely cinematic. The music tries to express something visual, tries to tell something without words. It can be understood as a soundscape, or as a simple song, but that depends on the listener. Although his influences from composers like Erik Satie and Arvo Part are clear, TAM's work is also concerned with the contemporary digital minimalism of the likes of Taylor Deupree and Alva Noto.
His self-titled EP, released on the portuguese label Variz, is the perfect example of these considerations: all the themes are based on a simple minimal melody, then other short and simple melodies are added. The goal is to compose a consistent piece, which leads you to quietness, warm melancholy and a cinematic approach to music.

5. tam (stylized in all lowercase) is a Serbian singer, songwriter and musician based in Belgrade, Serbia. In 2019, she released her debut single kako treba. In early 2020, tam signed for Universal Music Group Serbia and released her second single na holdu, a pop trap-influenced track. Her third single (second released under UMG label) Sve Dalje, gained significant radio play and was critically acclaimed by local media.
In February 2021, tam released brži od svega, a lead single from her upcoming EP, as well as her collab with Ivan Jegdić, song Čežnja. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tam">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.