Tamar Aphek is one of the prominent faces of contemporary rock in the Israeli rock scene and has been crowned "Israel's guitar goddess" (Timeout Tel-Aviv). She first came to prominence as the singer/guitar player for bands – Carusella, Shoshana, which were both known for turning every venue into a crime scene of volume and ruthless energy. Aphek is also known as a pioneer in the Israeli music scene, thanks to her initiative and production of the Besides That Festival to be held in nature which included the participation of Israeli and European bands.
 
In 2014, Aphek made a leap forward with her solo EP Collision, which showed her great power not only as a shredder but as a talented songwriter. She received accolades for her score of the drama-comedy One Week and a Day, which won the Gan Foundation Award at the Cannes Film Festival. The film was officially distributed by Oscilloscope Laboratories film company,  Sophie Dulac distribution, and a Korean distribution company.
​
Since then and now, Tamar Aphek teamed up with Space Agency booking in the United States and Ya Ya Yeah booking in Europe and played a couple of significant tours in Europe and in the United States, shared the stage with artists such as M. Ward, Deerhoof, Editors and participated in festivals such as SXSW, Treefort Festival, CMJ, Fusion Festival, Dreamgaze Festival, Barreiro Festival, Dunjam Festival and more.
 
These days she is finishing the work on her upcoming new album (second as a solo album), which she produced and recorded at Daptone Records.
​
Aphek is akin to artists that shatter expectations – balancing elegance and brutality, ferocious guitar sound and sweet melodies. These forces resound through Tamar and her band’s live performances, which are infused by jazz and global musical rhythms. She has now resurfaced with a new project called after her own name, teaming up with bass player Or Dromi and drummer David Gorensteyn. Aphek names her style jazz & roll – "I feel that in this period of time, while people eulogize rock'n'roll and compare it to its lost brother the jazz there's a place to stop the erosion in these two genres". In her live performance, Aphek will play songs from Carusella and songs from her new upcoming album which will be released during 2019 and moves elegantly between rock'n'roll, jazz and different styles of intercultural acquaintances.

http://www.tamaraphek.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tamar+Aphek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.