Tamino-Amir Moharam Fouad (born 24 October 1996), known mononymously as Tamino, is a Belgian singer, musician and model. He is of Belgian, Egyptian and Lebanese origin. He is the grandson of renowned Egyptian singer and movie star Muharram Fouad.

Before commercial success, at age 17 Tamino trained vocally at the Amsterdam Royal Conservatory. 

In November 2016, Tamino was invited by Belgian band Het Zesde Metaal to play a Radio 1 session. His first single, Habibi, made an impression and he was immediately picked up by Radio 1.

In 2017, Tamino won a new musical talent competition at Studio Brussels. On 11 October 2017 he played in the Ancienne Belgique (Brussels) where he was nicknamed 'the Belgian Jeff Buckley'. He has also played at Palais 12 (Brussels) and during the Flemish Music Industry Awards and the Melkweg in Amsterdam. During the summer of 2017, he was featured in festivals across Belgium and the Netherlands such as Rock Werchter and Pukkelpop.

In the summer of 2018 Tamino performed in festivals across Europe including Rock en Seine (Paris). On 19 October 2018 Tamino released his first full-length album Amir (Arts & Crafts/Communion). At the end of October, he played three sold-out shows at the Ancienne Belgique as part of a European headline tour. On 8 November 2018 he performed in Iceland at Iceland Airwaves.

Tamino was featured in Live Nation's Ones To Watch, which spoke of Tamino's voice saying his "falsetto surpasses 'face melting' and rises to a space of pureness that can only be described as divine." He recently announced his first headline stadium show in November 2019 at the Lotto Arena.

In 2019, Tamino played four shows at SXSW, his first ever North American shows where he shared the live version of his single "Indigo Night", with Radiohead bassist Colin Greenwood. On 10 May, Tamino released his live EP titled Live at Ancienne Belgique. Following SXSW he returned to Europe for a tour across the continent, including France, Great Britain, Germany, and the Sziget Festival in Budapest.

Tamino has also been featured in the fashion world and alongside supermodel Gisele Bündchen in Missoni's SS19 Collection. During Paris Fashion week he was featured "in conversation" with Maison Valentino and performed a solo version of "Indigo Night". He has been featured in Vogue Hommes' March 2019 14-page spread which was photographed by critically lauded photographer Paolo Roversi.


On 19 October 2018 Tamino released his first full-length album Amir. Throughout the album, Tamino is joined by a collective of Arabic musicians based in Brussels called Nagham Zikrayat, an orchestra predominantly made up of professional musicians from the Middle East, most of whom are refugees that fled Iraq and Syria.

The BBC hailed Amir as "The New Sound Of The Nile" an ode to Tamino's grandfather Muharram Fouad. The Independent included Amir in their top 10 albums of 2018. Tamino won the Anchor Award at Germany's 2018 Reeperbahn festival and has been nominated for 5 MIA Award's in Belgium. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tamino">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.