There are several artists with the same name:

1.) Melodic Death metal band from Tbilisi, Georgia formerly known as Defenders of Tanelorn from 2006 to 2011. They released the album Burden Divine (2011) under the new band name.
Current members:

Revaz Dekanozishvili - Guitars
Vadim Kurochkin - Drums/Percussion
Roman Kasumov - Bass 
Michael Chikviladze - Vocals
Beka Sinjikashvili - Guitars
Genadi Bagalishvili - Keyboards

The band was formed in Tbilisi (Georgia) in the January of 2001, and was named Tanelorn. Its initial genre was Neo-Classic/Folk Metal. Out of the 6 original members, only two are still playing there today: Revaz Dekanozishvili (guitars) and Vadim Kurochkin (drums/percussion). The current lead vocalist, Revaz’s cousin Michael Chikviladze, joined Tanelorn in 2003, after the first vocalist left the band. In the spring of 2006, the band changed its name to Defenders of Tanelorn due to commercial reasons. The bass player – Roman Kasumov – was invited by Michael to join the band in 2006, after DoT has gone through two other bass players. Roman fit in well, and today, along with Revaz, Michael, and Vadim, he is the backbone of the band. However, there has been a constant problem with the keyboard and the second guitar players, because it was hard to find musicians with suitable style and experience. In 2003, after one of Tanelorn’s establishers – Dmitry Eliseev (keyboards) – left, it took the band a lot of efforts until they were finally able to find a replacement – George Sarkisov – who then left as well, due to some personal problems in winter of 2007. Tanelorn performed without keyboards until the January of 2008, when young and talented Nino Esiava joined and revived the instrument. She also brought in a new guitar player – Zurab Toroshelidze – who also left the band in a while. For yet another month the band was looking for an umpteenth guitar replacement, when accidentally, through an online forum, Michael met George Eradze, who was just 14 y.o. at the time, and offered him to join DoT. In June of 2009, Nino left to continue her education in a conservatory, and George Sarkisov rejoined Tanelorn on keyboards, though due to some personal troubles he had to leave the band in september 2010. Genadi Bagalishvili replaced George on keyboards. In March 2011 Beka Sinjikashvili replaced George Eradze. In may 2011 the band was renamed back to Tanelorn as it was planned before.

2.) Polish doom metal band from Gdańsk, formed in 1996, and later renamed to Calm. They released one demo called Soul Mirror in 1997.

3.) A metal band from Staten Island, New York, US with singer Giuseppe (Joe) Maniglia, Gregg Locasclo on drums, Andy Cicalese on guitars, Eric Gartner on bass and Ron Kulak on guitars. They released the album The Other Side in 2009.

4.) A metal band from Fällanden, Switzerland starting in 1992 and releasing several albums in the '90s. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tanelorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.