There are three bands by the name of Tanner:
1. A post-hardcore band in the 90s, formed from the remaining members of Fishwife.
2. A German classic Heavy Metal / Hardrock band formed 1989 with two releases and a split CD appearance.
2. A German TromPop band formed in 2008.

1. After Ryan Foxe left the notoriously oddball San Diego group Fishwife remaining members Gar Wood (Hot Snakes), Chris Prescott (Hemlock, No Knife, Pinback), and Matt Ohlin continued on as the trio known as Tanner. Although their existence was fairly short, only remaining together from 1993 to 1997, the band did manage to release a handful of singles and two pretty fantastic albums in 1995’s Ill-Gotten Gains and 1997’s (Germo) Phobic. Over the years the albums sort of have gotten lost in the wealth of great releases that came out of the San Diego music scene during that time. In a group where Yank Crime is sometimes considered the be all end all of post-hardcore records, some might be surprised as to just how well Tanner’s material holds up in comparison as personally I feel like both of their albums came close to or possibly matched the intensity levels of said peers. The bands sound was equally driving and explosive, both records of theirs deliver riff after riff in an uncompromising frenetic pace however they remained incredibly tight, which was undoubtedly due to years of playing together anyway in their previous band. For anyone that enjoys the type anxiety ridden post-hardcore that the Southern California scene produced during the early to mid nineties, then definitely check out Tanner. Although never receiving the type of praise they most definitely deserved, they were one of the finest of the bunch without a doubt.

2. German Heavy Metal / Hardrock outfit TANNER was founded in 1989 and released two albums:
1992: Außer Atem
1994: Giftige Kinder
In 1992, the band took part in the well-known German metal magazine "Rock Hard's" compilation "Knockin' On Heavy's Door", contributing the track "Atemlos". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tanner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.