A south east London based duo, who met in 2004 at a small pirate radio station through the love of drum & bass music. Before that time these individuals had portfolios in their chosen fields, which were producing and DJ’ing. These talented artists then began working together towards their common goal, which was to break into the drum & bass scene.
Experimenting and striving for constant perfection: Jay (Producer / DJ) and Devon (DJ) under the name Tantrum Desire , have continued their promotion campaign and expedition, appearing on internet radio shows such as, Kunninmindz, Planet dnb, UK Rumble and Kool FM.
In 2005, a bunch of Tantrum Desire tracks on a load of CD’s was passed out in Spain at a big drum & bass event. This then attracted Nu-Breed’s - MC Shortston, who received a copy of the track collection and saw a spark in the production. This gave him some ideas and business plans to start up a new label called ‘Heavyweight Records’. This was the new home label for the boys, which released tracks such as, The Red Pill, Dreamscape EP, The Inner moon and White light, which had constant air play on radio stations such as 1xtra, Radio 1 and Kiss. Tantrum Desire also had bootleg projects lying around in the lab, which gave Shortston another idea to accompany Heavyweight with a bootleg label named “Booty”. This brought you releases such as, “Transformers”, “Jealousy”, “drop it like its hot” and “Can’t stop”.
In early 2008, Tantrum Desire was approached by one of the biggest pioneers in the game – Simon ‘Bassline’ Smith, who saw the variety of styles in the drum & bass productions and therefore became interested. This led him to making the guys an offer and signing them exclusively to his well established label - Technique Recordings. Straight away, Technique released Tantrum Desire’s debut 12” - “Xenomorph & the Last stand, which set their trademark in the scene for the sound of big baseline synths and orchestral intro’s. Soon after, the boys featured in the award winning Knowledge Magazine, which gave an insight of the T.D team and a warning to the public that the guys would be bringing dance floor smashers on a constant level. Early 2009 brought to your ears the sound of “Crazy Talk & Strength” on Techniques sister label’ World Wide Audio Recordings. This synth’tastic release received great feedback and support from pioneers such as Grooverider, Jumping Jack Frost, Zane Lowe, Hype, Ray Keith and many more.

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/tantrumdesire#ixzz15NwyHSJG <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tantrum+Desire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.