Post-death band from Krasnoyarsk (Russia - Siberia)

Tapinoma Say - a kind of ants "tapinoma sessile", finding by the scientist named Thomas Say. According to current research this kind unique is inclined to form mullions-strong "super colonies", moving ahead in depth of the populated locality, while showing properties of a kind-invader, forcing out other insects and remaining a problem for people.

The beginning of career of the collective was necessary in the spring of 2007. A few guys decided to play a «true Black Metal» though as a result, in accordance with the interests of participants was created the extensive library of a material with the introduction of elements from Doom, Brutal Death and in even deviation from «black». This, in turn, applauded by all members. That was a band which has reserved a couple of demos drifting on the network. Continuation of the history of the band is connected with deeper leaving in polystylistics, with expansion of structural, acoustic and phonic representations that was decided to call Post-Death. The band had a difficult time, it brought the changes in consciousness and perception of each of the musicians. Because of this there were structure changes. In spring 2010, the guitarist left the band due to mismatch of musical tastes and then there was still a number of metamorphoses. And finaly, as a result of long reflections, having understood that the band needed only completely and given to this serious matter responsible people, the collective transformed in Tapinoma Say. Now this new philosophy and new outlook. At once the band started record of a debut album.

On the threshold of the release of this СD which was recorded in the end of 2010 and mastered in summer 2011 to light is the limited edition of this creation named «Insects [Limited Edition]». A disk have four songs from the album: Insects, From The Depths of My Death, The Fall of the Summer The Rise of the Winter and Seventh Day. The limited edition was released specially for the festival Metal Hail Fest 2011 in order to promo-campaign. It has the original cover that is different from the future official release, and also it has a bonus composition. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tapinoma+Say">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.