Several artist are using the name "Target"


1. Target is a MC from Zagreb, Croatia, He's concidered to be the most skilled croatian MC. He's a member of the most prominent croatian hip hop act Tram 11. He's got three solo albums and a number of mixtapes.

2. Target was a 1970's Hard Rock band from the USA.
- Band members:
Lead Vocals: Jimi Jamison (who went on to front Cobra and Survivor)
Drums, Percussions: David Spain
Lead Guitar: Paul Cannon
Bass: Tommy Cathey
Lead Guitar, Organ: Buddy Davis
Organ, Piano: Paul Hornsby (replaced Buddy Davis in 1977)
- Discography:
1976 - Target
1977 - Captured

3.Target was a Belgian technical thrash metal act who released two albums for Mekong Delta mainman Ralph Hubert's Aaarrg label in the late 80s. He also produced their four track demo in 1987. Guitarist Lex Vogelaar later on formed the better known Orphanage. The band was originally formed in April 1986 by guitarist Franky van Aerde and drummer Christ Braems. A few line-up changes followed until Ralph Hubert signed the band in early spring 1987. Lead guitarist soon got married and left the band. In July / August 1987 they recorded their debut album "Mission Executed" in the Phoenix Studio in Bochum, West-Germany with a new Dutch guitarist named Lex Vogelaar who had joined the band only a few weeks before recording. In the winter of 1987 / 1988 there were a lot of problems for the band resulting from the change of management. Vocalist Guy lost his interest in making music and Target soon split up after the release of a second album with Steve Gray on vocals.

4. Target was a Dutch christian symphonic rockband. The leadsinger was the most famous Dutch gospelsinger Ralph van Manen. 
Band members:
Ralph van Manen - leadvocals, piano, bass
Hetty Klumpenaar - leadvocals
Gert Jan Hiemsch - bass, piano, vocals
Cees de Vreede - keyboards
Frank de Vroome - guitars
Arjan van den Bijgaart - Drums

5. Target is the name of a Rock, Pop, R&B and Soul covers band from Berkshire, UK.

5. Target is EBM industrial group od Czech Republic, project Dan Rodny and Zoran Stehlik of group Vanessa

6. Target is a Death Metal band from Chile.

7. TARGET (타겟) is a 7-member South Korean boy group under JSL Company. The group consists of Seulchan, G.I, Zeth, Hyun, Roi, Boun, and Woojin. TARGET debuted on January 24, 2018. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Target">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.