Tre Allegri Ragazzi Morti listeners, please correct your tags!

Tarm is a raw pagan black metal band from Estonia.
1998 - Küüvits Sünge decided to form band, something in the vein of Burzum and Kalm. Even band name was already chosen – Soontagana. Only there was a total lack of instruments and musicians. Nevertheless, some tunes were created on guitars, borrowed from friends. - 2000 - Küüvits met Kristjan, who was inspired by folk metal, so instead of playing black metal, they tried to create some national romantic metal. In this year Küüvits went to military service and band was hibernated for some time. - 2001 - After Küüvits’s arrival from military service, some rehearsals took place again and even some songs were created. But then came time for Kristjan to join army and he lost his interest in band. Küüvits was left alone once again, as folk wasnt really his cup of tea, Soontagana was put on held (it’s not really buried, maybe you can hear some music from this project in future). Küüvits felt that must feed his soul with music he really likes and continued with true black metal. Together with change of direction, new name was needed for band. - 2002 - On autumn was finished first black metal song “Veretasu Maade Poeg”, what set landmarks for a new band. Autumn of 2002 can be considered as start point for still nameless band. Creation of news song took a long long time. Everything was delayed, the main reason could be, that Küüvits didnt had any “real band” background. He had no idea about many things and even no idea where to find other band members. - 2004 - Küüvits moved temporarily from Pärnu to Põlva. Here seemed to be same situation, no hope for forming band. Anyway, Küüvits found motivation to go on and not to drop everything. On this autumn band gets name “Tarm” ( willpower). - 2005 - Küüvits tries one more time and puts some advertisements to local metal portal. Two weeks later he gets phonecall. It took so many time, but suddenly band has full line up and its ready for battle. The first lineup: Kägo (that one who called) – guitar, Sander – bass, Mäks – drums. Küüvits himself played second guitar and screamed. Mäks didnt stayed to a long time, he left after couple of rehearsals. Temporarily came to his place Thonolan from Urt. In the end of year Mari-Liis joined on keyboards, but only for a while, band dropped that idea. - 2006 - Küüvits decided to concentrate on singing and invited Oll from Urt to play guitar. On 19. march was made first rehearsal recording, to hear positive and negative sides of band’s abilities. On 21. april took place first gig of Tarm. It happened in Rock & Roll club (Tartu) and it was followed by great afterparty in Narusk and Taevaskoja. In july band started recording of demo, what was released on 8. september by Hexenreich Records (150 handnumbered copies + some promos). - 2007- Started recordings the new album. In February 2007, Kägo was kicked out of band, because of loss of trust and incompetence. Second live took place 03-03-2007 Rock & Roll again

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/TARM">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.