Tarragona is a hard rock/heavy metal band from Zwolle, Netherlands, consisting of the tremendous vocalist and songwriter guitarist Vidal Wildeboer, the strenuous drummer Stef Hoekjen, the lead guitarist and songwriter, Lennart van Kampen and the creative bassist Steven van der Hulst. Four young talented guys aged between 19 and 20 who flourish in one of the most spectacular hard rock and heavy metal band from the Dutch scene. With their own compositions, self-written lyrics and unique sound, they stick together literally and metaphorically: ‘as strong as iron’. In this sense, TARRAGONA distinguishes itself by far amongst the many other rock and metal bands in our little country. Influences from bands such as Alter Bridge, Pantera, System Of A Down and Metallica are powerful in their music.
Accompanied by a delirious audience, TARRAGONA had various performances and locations behind, such as: Bevrijdingsfestival Overijssel (Liberation Day Festival Overijssel), Stonerock Festival and an opening act for the American metal band Mastodon. Among TARRAGONA’s performances, they also took part in different competitions where they were often nominated among the best (winners of the Student Band Festival in Zwolle, 2nd place Emergenza - The Netherlands). The jury’s remark at the Pré Party of the Geldersch Metal Treffen 2014 was:
‘This young hard rock/heavy metal band has surprised us in an incredibly positive way! What they have let us hear belongs to an extremely high level. We have unanimously decided that they will play this year at the Geldersch Metal Treffen Festival!’.
TARRAGONA’s band members come from different corners of the Netherlands.
Vidal Wildeboer (1994), was born in Amsterdam and grew up in Lelystad. He has been playing guitar since he was 6 years old and has also been active in different (metal) bands at a young age.
Lennart (1995) currently lives in Dronten, where he also opened his eyes for the first time. He started playing the guitar at the age of 14.
Steven (1994) has been living almost his whole life in the former fishing village Huizen and started making music at the age of 14, just the same as Lennart. He learned to play the bass from the old bassist of Massada, who noticed his talent.
Stef (1995) was born and raised in Nijverdal, where he is also a drummer of the local bands. At the age of 7 he began drumming, and now and then he also plays guitar.
In 2012, they all met each other in Deltion College in Zwolle, during their Music study. In January 2014, TARRAGONA was formed at the beginning of their internship in Hedon. Each with their own characteristics, they stuck to each other in an extremely cool way. That’s how their first single ‘Shall We Remain’ was created. They have written more songs in the meantime, such as: ‘The Insane’, ‘Deathrace’ and ‘Whisper In The Wind’.
Whether TARRAGONA plays in the opening act for Mastodon in De Melkweg or in a small concert hall, the enthusiastic audience always enjoys a dynamic, musical and outrageous performance.
TARRAGONA’s debut EP ‘Shall We Remain?’ and the music video with the same name, were released in November 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/tarragona">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.