The rise of TAZUMAL began in 2000 with the three founding members. Atonal Mictlan, Vocals,Bass, Guitars and main composer... Camazotz Mexicayotl drums... Necali Ehecatl Guitarist, Back-up Vocals... In May of 2004 TAZUMAL's newest member joined the band... Tizoc Atlachinoli, After years of many shows and recorded demos Necali Ehecatl, Camazotz Mexicayotl & Tizoc Atlachinoli left the band.

Half a year went by and through endless support Atonal finally gained the drive to hunt for new warriors to embrace the call of war.. Through a local Southern California supporter, Moshking.com, Atonal answered the call of local drummer Francisco Zamudio(Xolotl) After a couple of months of training, Atonal enlisted Bassist Gerardo Garcia.(Ocelotl) In December 2008 some musicians decided to get together to pay homage to Dimebag Darrell. Ocelotl knew someone who could meet the requirements for lead guitar. Disgustin’ Dustin Leos(Ahalpuh) helped us in honoring Dime Bag Darrell, and it was from there on Disgustin’ Dustin was welcomed to the Sacred Circle.

After playing many shows the new line up decided to do a cover song from Sepultura's Arise for Metal Jam, a fund raiser organization due to a little mix up Ahalpuh was having problems trying to get in for the lead guitar part, also we got booked to play out of state and Ahalpuh could not make it so we so mananged to call on an ex-member to fill in Temporarily Tizoc Atlachioli who learned Arise and who knew most of our material already. But once in we realized that as 5 piece band we could do a lot more since Atonal would be just singing, so it was decided that Tizoc Atlchinoli would remain in the band.

After a good run “Disgusting Dustin”(Ahalpuh) & Fancisco Zamudio(Xolotl) left the band, Camazotz was called to fill in on drums for a while and After Camazotz departure, We had to enlist somebody to fill in and after careful consideration we enlisted Jaime Gomez(Mextli) to fill in for drums and the line up became complete with Atonal Mictlan(guitars main Vocals), Tizoc Atlachinoli(lead guitars backup vocals) Ocelotl(bass) & Mextli(drums)

TAZUMAL has shared the stage with many of the influences that makes METAL what it is today. TAZUMAL is the hardest working band in So. Cal. We are a Strong, Committed and Intense band. It shows in our Aggressive Guitar Riffs, Violent Blast Beats and the pure Brutality of our Music. We have shared the stage with some of the greatest bands such as... Cannibal Corpse, Kreator,Napalm Death,Exhumed, Hypocrisy, Vile, Brujeria, Exodus, Cattle Decapitation, Suffocation, Behemoth, Deicide, Cryptopsy and Ed Guy, Krisiun, Hate Eternal, OverKill and Vader to name a few. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tazumal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.