There are two artists named "TC". The first is a Drum and Bass producer from the UK, the second is a songwriter and vocalist from Kentucky, USA. 

1) TC stormed to success after the release of his debut album in 2007 and has not looked back since.  With all the major DJs smashing his tunes and the unprecedented support of dance music’s elite, TC is D&B’s new wonder boy, rising through the ranks to receive the prestigious accolade of ‘Best Producer/Breakthrough Producer’ in the 2007 1Xtra ‘Xtra Bass Awards’ ceremony.  Consistently tearing up dancefloors across the country with his signature big, bouncy, bass-heavy tunes, TC is a force to be reckoned with.  Each of the singles taken from his debut album 'EVOLUTION' ('Deep', 'Jump', 'Rockstar' and 'Where's My Money') topped both the BBC Radio 1's National Dance chart as well as BBC 1Xtra's D&B chart.  Since then, TC has kept the standards high and feels very strongly that despite his successes his work is far from over.  With big plans and exciting projects for the future, this jump-up juggernaut is one of the brightest sparks in the scene and will continue to keep us on our toes for a long time yet!

2) Songwriter & vocalist TC, born in Kentucky on June 16, instantly became interested in stardom while singing in church every Sunday since the tender age of 2. His mom literally told him, Shut Up Boy as he would grace the house with his powerful voice. Growing up he listened to Whitney Houston, and was almost able to completely mimic her sound. As he got older he became a huge Brandy fan, which helped develop his ear for creating a well written song, first by learning to enhance his voice into different variations of tones and vibratos. He has also been influenced by other greats in the industry as well. Candice Nelson, Kim Burrell, Tank, and Beyonce, just to name a few. TC has had some industry exposure, but it wasn't quite his time. He was a top ten finalist on BETs Mariah Carey contest for upcoming singers. He has also auditioned for American Idol, and Showtime at the Apollo, but has yet to grace their stages. If you ask him about his feelings toward not being selected to compete, he will openly tell you, “I didn't make it…It wasn't my time! I'll just keep going!” TC is very new, innovative, and unique to the music industry because of camo style, in addition to his outgoing personality, crazy penmanship & melodic harmonies! Even though new to the writing game, he has been blessed to work with the likes of his Idol Brandy, Chilli of (TLC), Megan Rochell, Danja, Rodney Jerkins, and more. TC gives all his credits to God for giving him such a powerful gift, and all of the many influences surrounding his dream to become one of the greats in the music industry.

3) TC is also Trevor C, just a dude that makes awesome music from pianos and computers and is not either of these other dudes.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/TC">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.