There's two artists named Teabag.


1. Teabag is post-Psychotic Waltz band, featuring drummer Norm Leggio and guitarist Steve Cox, who played with PW during the last days of that band's tenure. An early demo CD of Teabag showed the band opting for a stripped-down modern metal approach, but by the time of their debut self-financed CD in 2001 they had returned to the progressive metal field, though they don't particularly sound like Psychotic Waltz at all, as they are neither as chaotic as early PW nor as spacey as their later period. Instead, they retain a fair bit of the aggression of their demo, coupled with the expected excellent technical drumming of Leggio and and a bit of progressive tendencies in the songwriting department. Vocalist Ron Lerma has a unique voice, singing in a melodic style that sometimes works quite well though at other times he sounds a bit strained. This is a pretty original release, as Teabag really doesn't sound like anyone else, as their style of progressive metal with a distinct aggressive slant makes for an intriguing listen.

Members:

Ron Lerma - vocals  
Steve Cox - guitars  
Marty Watson - bass  
Norm Leggio - drums


2. From the dust piles of some old bands you probably hated (See: Assault Shaker), exploding onto the scene like a puss filled haemorrhoid and rising like a Phoenix fighting its way out of a a bucket filled with fried chicken, it's Teabag: The European Hello!

Teabag bring their own incredible, yet unique blend of mediocrity to play music that could only be classified by your local record store as 'AWESOMECORE!!! With AVENGANCE!!!' With a catalogue of 'hits' that include "Go Home, Spew", "You Don't Just Catch Crabs at the Beach" and what Spin magazine didn't describe as 'the most epic song since Iron Maiden's Rhyme of the Ancient Mariner', the "Ballad of Matt Damon vs. Skeletor", you are certain to have the time of your life! But Teabag also have a sensitive side. This is evident in songs like "William Con Carne," a love song about the effects to much Mexican food can have on your bowels, and who could possibly forget the incredibly moving, "Sisterhood Of The Naked Dancing Sluts" which proves that sluts have feelings too and have a good understanding of what it means to turn up to the pub and see some bitch wearing the same Supre top as you. Other song topics include sex, AID, girls and vaginas.

Teabag have become well known for 'throwing down'. Whether this is a result of watching 8 Mile one too many times, consuming the rider in world record time or a unique combination of the two, Teabag like to involve members of the audience and invite them on stage to battle rap against Nick and Ryan, in a hilarious 'winner takes all' format. Prizes have been known to include high fives from members of the band, a free drink or a trip around the world. They would also like to point out that this in no way is a lame attempt to fill up time when you've run out of original songs and don't know any more covers.

Teabag also strong believers in the awesome power of radioactive waste and challenge anyone to convince them otherwise. So if you're in search of a good time, come and see Teabag: The European Hello! and rock out with your cock out.

Members:
Nick (guitar, vocals, witty retorts)
Ryan (guitar, vocals, your local cable car driver to the stars)
Steve (bass, beer, body odour, Scientology)
Red (drums, rude comments, hard work, rubber chicken impersonations)

Information provided by Punk As
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teabag">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.