There are 2 artists with the name Teardown, 
1) Depressive metal band from Finland (formed 2001),
2) National Socialist Hatecore one from the United States (formed 2003 / R.I.P 2007)

Both BIOS are included: First the Finnish band bio, and then the HC one.

1) Teardown from Finland was formed in the beginning of year 2001 by  Ahmaoja who wanted to compose and play Katatonia-inspired music. He found other guitarist Keltsu, drummer Rami, basist Laba, keyboardist Pipsa and singer Make. First demo, entitled "Nothing should be wrong.." (2002) was made as a home-recording. That demo was never published.

Then there was a sort of break in the bands activity. During that the singer Make left the band. Still new material was made and the band decided to record a new demo. This took place in autumn of 2003. Drums were recorded at Akustiikka-house Ylivieskaand the rest of the instruments were recorded as a home-recording. The singer in the new demo "Drowned in your tears" is Katja, who joined the band in the same Autumn.

In summer of 2005 Teardown started to record new material. This happened complitely as a home-recording. Recording sessions took a quite long time, but in autumn of 2006 "Cold rooms" was finally released. Katja's friend Margit participated the recording sessions by singing backing vocals and playing violin.

After the release "Cold rooms" band started promoting itself largely around the globe. Promotion mainly consisted webzine and magazine reviews and some interviews were also done. In 2007 Teardown began rehearsing more and more to make the band ready for gigging. After few months of heavy training some shows were booked, and the success of our shows motivated the band to rehearse even more.

Beside gigging, new material were made all the time and in the summer 2008 Teardown entered Watercastle studios in Jyväskylä for recording sessions. After sessions and mixing, the new material was sent to Chartmakers Oy for mastering purposes. Soon "Cyanotic" -promo was born and ready to roll. Cyanotic was also heavily promoted and the demo got mainly really good feedback, for example the title of Demo of the month (04/09) in Imperiumi-metalmedia. In the summer 2009 guitarist Keltsu decided to leave Teardown and Jari Kinnunen took his place.

Now, Teardown focuses on doing even better material for new (hopefully full-lenght) record and plays in every gig they can get! In January 2010 the band packs their instruments and heads for European tour with Manzana and For Selena and Sin. 

www.teardownband.com

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

2) Teardown is a National Socialist Straight-Edge Hatecore band from Philadelphia, PA and includes an ex-member of the Blue Eyed Devils. (formed 2003 / r.i.p 2007)

Teardown was originally formed in November 2003 ( R.I.P 2007 ) by a couple of friends that had played together in a few local bands over the past several years. For the first few months the band practiced frequently, covering popular hardcore songs as well as writing original material. Unfortunately, not long after formation internal tension had grown within the band. A lack of dedication of some members, and lack of talent by others, forced a complete reconstruction of the band. Bob was the only remaining member, and began to search for others that were 100% dedicated and shared a similar passion for music. Over the spring of 2004 the new lineup of Teardown took shape, with members that had both devotion and talent for producing highly technical and energetic hardcore.

With the reformation of Teardown came a new mindset and theory behind the band. Not content with minor success and a mediocre sound, they wanted to form something more serious and professional. Besides having fun, they organized the band around the goal of achieving success. They want push themselves and their ability beyond the limits set in previous bands. With Ron doing Vocals, Bob on guitars, Sean on Drums, and Paul on Bass, Teardown has been persistently writing more powerful music, and practicing several times per week to become musically tight. They all have an experienced background in music and a wide range of musical interests. Paul also plays the violin, and frequently performs at local Irish bars and classical recitals. Sean has played drums for various death metal bands, and has played at local clubs, including the Trocadero. Bob has played in variety of local hardcore bands, and has traveled extensively in America and Europe to play shows. A very positive chemistry exists between the members, and they all share the same goals and interests for the band. They recently recorded their debut full length CD called "Against the Dying Light", which contains 10 aggressive tracks of brutal hardcore and heavy breakdowns. They are continually booking new shows, writing music, and are building a reputation as a serious band that puts on highly energetic performances.  They have been played on a variety of local radio programs, including on the Loud and Local hour hosted by the major Philadelphia Station 94 WYSP, as well as doing shows throughout Europe and America.

Fans of powerful hardcore bands such as Hatebreed, Until the End, Throwdown, Terror, Death Before Dishonor, and Shockwave will find a similar energy and style in Teardown.  Harsh vocals with heart-pounding breakdowns, as well as ear-catching melody, force the emotion of every Teardown song into the listener. Through hard work, dedication, and a passion for the music, they have formed a tight band with a distinct, aggressive sound in the hardcore scene.

http://www.teardownhc.com/

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teardown">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.