Many attempts had been made to found a band in the past. Eric had never taken the initiative to start a band but was always the first one to join the attempt. At school he had made two attempts with Michael, the second ending up in a two-man band. But coming to a halt too after a while. Then another attempt was made at school, this time Rob joined too, they had at least 4 rehearsals at school before it failed like the rest. This only includes the attempts that had actually come to playing together, talk about creating a band had existed much more.

But then came the next attempt. Rob started a band with school, for a project. After the project he wanted to continue the band, but the other members left. That's where Eric once again agreed to help create a band. Rob would play lead guitar, and Eric would play the drums.
Starting a band with only two people was no success, so at a christmas celebration at school they talked and decided that Rudie, having played guitar in the past might want to join on the Bass. He did indeed. On keys we knew Bram had had some lessons in the past. He too agreed to join the band. Now they were almost complete, and could start rehearsing. At first they rehearsed at Eric's place, for there the drumset stood. But a house just isn't the perfect place to practice, so they decided to go to the Odeon, a place where they got a rehearsal room.

For a singer, they found Karin. But somehow it didn't seem to work very well this way, so the search for a new singer and hopefully backing guitar player too went on. After a short search and some auditions (two) they decided Merijn was the way to go, and he joined the band. In this formation they had a few performances already. After their second time playing at Klein Kunstje they asked Lindsay to join them as a guestmusician on their next concert, playing the violin. Somehow she has stuck with the band however, and became a fulltime member too. Unfortunately, due to personal reasons Merijn had to leave the band. Now they had three weeks to go before their next concert would be and they were without a singer. Here Michael came in again. At a party they asked him if he wanted to play guitar at least for the coming concert, so Rob and Lindsay could sing, and they'd still have all instruments played. He agreed to do it, and despite the fact that they'd had only two weeks to prepare the concert, and Michael had only two weeks to study our songs, the concert went great.

Then very unexpectedly, a week later they had the opportunity to play at the local festival Cult & Tumult, on a big stage. They heard it the day before and inmediately responded and got their 25 minutes on stage. The next rehearsal, after playing with Michael for 4 weeks, they decided to accept him in their band as a full-time member.

Tears of Valiance originally started with the intention to make Power Metal, but many different influences from the different members have made it a mix that makes it unclear if it is still really to be called Power Metal. Therefore they have settled with another very good sounding genre, Melodic Metal. Defined by the melody in their music created by the keyboard, violin and guitars and the style Tears of Valiance was born to: Metal. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tears+of+Valiance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.