How it all began...

It was on a Monday afternoon in the middle of October 2003. I  sat in the bus, when I got the following sms from Siegi:’Lorenz, get the fucking hold of a drummer, I need a band!’. ‘Okay’ I thought ,’What now??’. The idea of opening a death-metal band had haunted me for more then a half year and I know that Zucker was generally interested in a side-project to his band, Sith, where he is the bandleader and to manage nearly everything. I knew as well that Siegi would be the man I wanted on the lead guitar, the only problem was the occupation with his own (old) band, which wasn’t going very well.

Well, regarding the sms I thought the problem with Siegis old band would be clean. A second I realized that I would have a problem with his new band. Heavily encumbered with stress in every part of my life, I foresaw much more stress coming my way.

Whatever!!!

Siegi and I met the same evening in one of our favourite bars and we discussed the things with the help of a nice, large beer...or two.. I don’t remember it anymore =P. He told me that he knew a bass player and I told him about a guy I knew from school who played drums. Well, we also had to contact Zucker and offer him our idea.

As always the good doctor (as we frequently call him)was totally stressed, still he managed it that we met us half hour later( I’m sure it was the call of the beer and not mine ;)).Siegi needed only 5 minutes to contact a friend of his, if he had be interested in joining our band on bass:’Hi Richi,  tell, would you be interested in joining our band on bass?-Yes?- Wonderful !- I’ll give you the details later, when we got everything set out,cya.’. During I had a few difficulties with Nador, the guy I wanted to help us with drums, because- let’s put it like this- it wasn’t really his style of music. Still, he agreed to help us out until we got a fix drummer and that was all that mattered that moment.

After having sorted out the name problem in 5 minutes as well and with the line-up more or less complete Siegi checked out a room for our rehearsals and started to manage nearly everything. He even managed to get us a fix drummer: Stefan, a member of his old band! After the first rehearsal with him, where he just wanted to check out, if it would be possible for him, because without him to stay... by threatening him to play even more. And we were quite lucky with him, because without him and his equipment we wouldn’t have recorded our first single now!!!!
Well, after we got a new room for our rehearsals, which was nicer to our wallets from a friend of mine. The work for our first album ‘Armageddon Generation’ had already begun.

Some few months later we were proud to be asked in most friendly way. If it was necessary to leave the room again, as the owner got troubles with the cops because of the volume... oh yeah, louder than legal=)! After searching and after our first two concerts in Vienna we found yet another room for the rehearsals and hopefully this one will satisfy all our needs...

To be continued...
Very Special Thanks for spell-checking and rewriting of our history to Sandra Sieghart <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tears+of+Wrath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.