Tearless was formed in Autumn 2003 by Zlatko Kušter (guitar, vocal), Marko Bregović (drums) and Zoran Ernoić (guitar) as a cover band. Soon after that, we started to compose our own music and write our own songs. Band expandes after Matija Brežni (keyboards), Josip Cujzek – Fure (bass guitar) and Kristina Mojzeš (female vocal) joined Tearless. In 2005 we have recorded our first demo called „Reverie“, with Ivana Vuglač replacing Kristina as female vocal.
 Due to some personal problems and lack of time, Tearless was forced to be put „on hold“ until 2007. Than, under the name „Seed of evil“ the band continued to work, but with few new members. Davor Kušen (guitar), Miran Špičko (drums), Zoran Druško (keyboard) and Lucija Geček (female vocal) were the part of te „new“ band that soon reclaimed the old name „Tearless“.  Same year we have recorded another demo called „World of shadows“ and  in 2009 demo called „The path of sorrow“. Fate was not kind to us, so again some of our members departed from us.
 From 2010 until 2012 there were some major changes considering the band line-up, until we managed to put together people that are the „base“ of the band – Zlatko Kušter (guitar/vocal), Filip Babić (bass guitar/vocal), Siniša Godinić (guitar) and Miran Špičko (drums). In 2013 we have recorded our first full lenght album called „Step into darkness“, containing 10 songs and featuring Lucija Juriša as female vocal in Mathlab recording studio and became a part of Wormhole death family. 

Current line-up of Tearless is: Zlatko Kušter (guitar/vocal), Ivana Novak (female vocal), Siniša Godinić (guitar), Filip Babić (bass guitar/vocal), Miran Špičko (drums).

From the time that band started to exist, we have been infuenced by many bands and variaty  of genres in metal sphere. Ten years was a long period of creating, starting from the beginning, sharing a good and not so good times with all the people who were a part of Tearless. Every individual brought something new to the bend and has left a personal „seal“ to the music we created. And our story may be a cliche, but it is a proof that dreams can come true if you possess love and passion towards music. To believe in yourself and having the support from friends and family it´s a bigger succes than anything else.

Marko Bregović /1987-2014/ - Dear friend, until we meet again.
R I P
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tearless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.