Alf Bamford, a.k.a. Technikal, is one of the UK dance scene's rising stars and arguably the most talented producer and engineer the genre has ever known. His output since his first release, Annihilation, in 2003, has been nothing short of prolific, producing and engineering some of the most memorable hard dance tracks of recent times.

Never one to rest on his laurels, he has pushed his immense production skills further by successfully producing acclaimed hardcore tracks alongside his unique brand of Hard Dance, as well as producing electro and psy-trance-tinged material. Keen to show he is no one-trick-pony, this young star continues to test his skills to the limits.

Technikal first found his passion for dance music as a young teenager, and was inspired by his older brother to take up music production. Producing from the age of thirteen, he got his first track signed at the age of seventeen - and has gone on to sell hundreds of thousands of records across the globe. Since being discovered by HeatUK’s Spencer Freeland and Marc French in 2004, Technikal has made a truly meteoric through the hard dance scene, working with the likes of Phil Reynolds, Steve Hill, Rob Tissera....the list goes on and on. He has earned the respect of his peers and is consistently cited as one of the most talented and innovative producers around.

Alf’s DJ career has taken off in a big way too. Now cool and confident behind the decks, his invigorating, peak-time blend of hard dance has seen him play such illustrious gigs over the past year as Tidy Weekender, Goodgreef vs. Sundissential, Frantic, and his spellbinding midnight set at HeatUK’s New Year’s Eve Party at Brixton Academy. Further afield he has played at Australia’s biggest and best parties such as Progress and Masif, as well as the massive Impulz party in Holland. 

In 2007, Alf launched his own record label, Technikal Recordings, which so far has showcased his own collaborations with Guy Mearns (Guyver) and Pierre Pienaar (P.H.A.T.T.), Rushin' and Industrializm respectively, a solo effort called Pump It and Sambo's track Mesmerize. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Technikal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.