Teddybears (formerly Teddybears STHLM) is a Swedish rock band formed in 1991.

They began as Skull, a grindcore group. The band initially consisted of singer Patrik Arve and the brothers Joakim Åhlund and Klas Åhlund, before drummer Olsson joined them. They released their debut album You Are Teddybears in 1993 and their second album, titled I Can't Believe It's Teddybears STHLM followed in 1996. Their third album Rock'n'Roll Highschool came out in 2000 and consisted of electronic elements, which were a departure from the band's previous hardcore music. A fourth album, 'Fresh', was released in 2005 and included the singles Cobrastyle and Hey Boy.

As for the name, "If you're familiar with the Swedish or Norwegian black metal scene, you know back then every band was called things like 'Corpse Grinder From Hell,' Åhlund says. "So we called ourselves the Teddybears as an 'anti' thing." Band members wear large bear masks in album art and promotional photographs.

Joakim Åhlund is also the lead guitarist and songwriter for the Caesars, who are best known for "Jerk It Out", a song used in an iPod commercial. Klas Åhlund has also produced most of the Caesars' albums. Klas Åhlund also produced Robyn's 2005 self titled album, and she covered their hit "Cobrastyle" on her most recent release The Rakamonie EP released exclusively in the UK.

The two brothers also direct television ads and music videos through production outfit Spader Knekt.

In a recent commercial, Intel had used a sample of the band's song "Different Sound," to promote their new Intel Core 2 Duo Processor.

The group has a global music publishing deal with BMG Music Publishing. They have signed to Atlantic Records and Big Beat/Atlantic Records released their first North American album, Soft Machine on September 12, 2006, under the shortened moniker Teddybears. The album includes appearances from Iggy Pop, Annie, Ebbot Lundberg of The Soundtrack of Our Lives, Mad Cobra, and Neneh Cherry.

Members:
Patrik Arve - Vocals,Lead Guitar
Joakim Åhlund - Drums
Klas Åhlund - Guitar

taken from: wikipedia.org
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Teddybears+Sthlm+&+Mad+Cobra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.