There is more than one group with the name Teddybears.
1. A popular Swedish electrorock band formed in 1991
2. The Teddy Bears were an American doo-wop group active in the 1950's which featured notorious producer Phil Spector.
3. A garage rock band from Norway formed in the early 2000's

1.  Teddybears (Formerly known as Teddybears STHLM) is a Swedish rock band that formed in 1991.
They began as Skull, a grindcore group. The band initially consisted of singer Patrik Arve and the brothers Joakim Åhlund and Klas Åhlund, before drummer Olsson joined them. They released their debut album, You Are Teddybears in 1993 and their second album, I Can't Believe It's Teddybears STHLM, followed in 1996. Their third album Rock'n'Roll Highschool came out in 2000 and consisted of electronic elements, which were a departure from the band's previous hardcore music. A fourth album, Fresh, was released in 2005 and included the singles Cobrastyle and Hey Boy. Cobrastyle, in particular, has been utilised recently by Heineken in their Meet You There advertising campaign, which debuted worldwide in Singapore. It's also featured in the popular video game FIFA 06, advertising for the soft drink Tab Energy and as an official theme song for WWE SummerSlam 2006 pay-per-view event.

As for the name, "If you're familiar with the Swedish or Norwegian black metal scene, you know back then every band was called things like 'Corpse Grinder From Hell,' Åhlund says. "So we called ourselves the Teddybears as an 'anti' thing."[2] Band members wear large bear masks in album art and promotional photographs.

Joakim Åhlund is also the lead guitarist and songwriter for The Caesars, who are best known for Jerk It Out, a song used in an iPod commercial. Klas Åhlund has also produced most Caesars albums.

The two brothers also directs television ads and music videos through production outfit Spader Knekt.

The group has a global music publishing deal with BMG Music Publishing. They have signed to Atlantic Records and Big Beat/Atlantic Records will release their first North American album, Soft Machine on September 12, 2006, under the shortened monniker Teddybears. The album includes appearances from Iggy Pop, Annie, Ebbot Lundberg of The Soundtrack Of Our Lives, Mad Cobra, and Neneh Cherry.

2. The Teddy Bears were a band that is perhaps most known for being Phil Spector's first band. They released the single To Know Him is to Love Him on ERA's Dore label in August 1958, which eventually reached #1 on the US charts and stayed there for three weeks.

3. The Teddybears are a band from Norway with a retro Rock & Roll Sound. They have three albums Evig Rock n' Roller, The Teddybears, and Norge Rundt. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teddybears">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.