The Teen Idols were a pop punk band based in Nashville, Tennessee.

The band was formed in 1992 and quickly gained local popularity while playing at venues such as Lucy's Record Shop and receiving frequent airplay on Nashville college radio. During the mid-90s, they released several EPs under the local indie label, House O' Pain. In 1996, the Nashville Music Association nominated the band for their Independent Artist of the Year award. A year later, the Teen Idols released their first full-length album under the indie label Honest Don's Records.

They released two other albums under the Honest Don's label before signing to Fueled by Ramen in early 2003. Around that time, Keith left the band and Kevin (formerly of Detroit-based P.T.'s Revenge) took over the vocals. Shortly thereafter, the band released the album Nothing to Prove in July, 2003, but broke up during the subsequent tour. During their heyday, the Teen Idols headlined many tours in the U.S. and played support with other notable bands such as NOFX, Anti-Flag, Less Than Jake, and The Queers.

After the breakup of the Teen Idols, Heather, Matt Yonker, and Kevin joined forces with Geis and Gui from Rehasher and have toured and recorded as the band Bullets to Broadway. The band released one album, Drink Positive, and supported Lagwagon and Lawrence Arms on US legs as well as Less Than Jake on their 2006 European tour. Matt has gone on to play with The Queers, Ben Weasel, The Methadones and now owns Drastic Sounds Recording Studio in Nashville, TN. Phillip has done duty with many bands including The Queers, Screeching Weasel, and Even in Blackouts.

On December 26, 2008, the Teen Idols announced on their MySpace blog that they had decided to come out of retirement and would soon be making new records and playing shows again.

Teen Idols announced their new bassist, Jemima Kate from Ireland, and also in early 2009 announced a tentative agreement to sign with Fat Wreck Chords, but an official contract never materialized. Later that year, guitar player Phillip Hill was hospitalized with four broken ribs and a collapsed lung after trying to break up a fight. Because he lacked health insurance, an account was set up to help raise money for his medical bills. The band broke up again in June 2010. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teen+Idols">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.