Teki Latex (born Julien Pradeyrol) is a member of the french group TTC. Singer from Paris with italian origins, he also is a cofounder of the hip-hop/electro independent label "Institubes".

Member of Bladazz with Tido Berman, he created the rap group TTC with him and his cousin Cuizinier. After EPs and mixtapes, they made two albums, Ceci n'est pas un disque (2002) and Bâtards Sensibles (2004), on Big Dada, from the label Ninja Tune. Their third album, 3615 TTC, was released on December 26, 2006 on V2 Records.

The album Bâtards Sensibles is nominated at the Victoires de la Musique 2005 (a french award ceremony) in the category “Album rap/hip-hop/rnb of the year”.

Teki Latex also took part in many collaborations in the independent French hip-hop scene in which he is regarded as "one of the leaders", in particular on the L'armée des 12 (gathering TTC, La Caution and Saphir), which album Cadavre Exquis went out in November 2002 at Kerozen, the label of La Caution.

The other major project of Teki Latex relates to L'atelier, which album Buffet des anciens élèves, rejected by various labels, the creation of its own label accelerates, Institubes, in order to allow its finalization. You can find on this project Teki Latex, Fuzati (Klub des Loosers, Le Klub des 7), Cyanure (ATK, Le Klub des 7) and James Delleck (Gravité Zéro, Le Klub des 7), also Para One and Tacteel, who worked on the second album of TTC, as producers. The disc went out in 2003.

Teki Latex also went on a solo career in 2006 to the accents much more pop. After having signed at Virgin France, he made his first EP Disco Dance With You in June 2006, produced by Gonzales and Renaud Létang (VV).

His first solo album Party de Plaisir (resolutely Dancefloor according to him) is scheduled for march 2007, before which he has also released a second EP Les Matins de Paris featuring the french pop artist Lio. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teki+Latex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.