T E L E F U Z Z is the second recording project of Vancouver based musician Don Verbrilli. Deep, psychedelic, dubby, mysterious are all words that will spring to mind when listening to Telefuzz. In the studio it's Verbrilli behind all the controls and instruments with special guest vocalists and musicians regularly being featured. Telefuzz also performs live occasionally, lately as a 2 or 3 piece. Telefuzz live features Verbrilli on guitars and electronics, Paul Milelli on drums and Paul McNeill on bass. A notable gig was the Big Chill festival [UK] in 2006. Telefuzz has 3 albums to date: 'Sleep' [2002], 'The Financiers Of Samsara' [2006] and the latest release, 'The Ovaltine Prophecies' [2009]. All albums are released on the Vancouver based label, Upstairs Recordings. Telefuzz also has many tracks licensed to acclaimed electronic music compilation albums from around the world.

Releases:

Telefuzz and Verbrilli Sound tallied 8 tracks on Upstairs Recordings 1999 compilation 'Deepdown Tempos Volume 1', which won compilation of the month honours with Muzik Magazine: 'If you've ever been a fan of Air, Deep Dish, Nuphonic, Spiritual Life, Fila Brazillia, Lee Perry...well, the list goes on. These boys' record collection must be as wild as their names... there's only so many times I can say buy this. BUY THIS.' The track 'Cansada' was quickly licensed for Om Records Om Lounge 3' compilation, appearing with songs by Fila Brazillia and Boozoo Bajou. 'Cansada' was also chosen to kick off Pagan Records 'Cam Del Mar' Mix CD. Muzik magazine described 'Cansada' as a 'Detroit-tinged gem thats a worthy contemporary of anything by Tosca or Thievery Corporation.' In 2000 The Verbrilli Sound released the richly textured 'Many Coloured Butterflies' album on Seattle's Sweet Mother Recordings. It received excellent reviews from XLR8R and Mixer magazine, and tracks from the album found their way into the dj sets of Roni Size and DJ Krush, amongst others. 'Views' was licensed for the Wallpaper Mach 1.5 compilation alongside Thievery Corporation, Air, and Jazzanova. In 2001 Telefuzz and the Verbrilli Sound again rounded out the Upstairs 'Deepdown Tempos 2' compilation with 7 tracks. Telefuzz's 'Shampoo Idols' was hailed as a 'minor masterpiece', and Jockey Slut called 'Millionaire' and 'Sideshot Jazzwalk' highlights of an album which offered 'well written, properly produced songs that have feeling, soul, atmosphere, rhythm, and an ability to take you somewhere nice and deep.' Later in 2001 Telefuzz bookended Om Records 'Environments' CD with the standout tracks 'Isolationists' and 'Spineless.' In 2002 Telefuzz released its first solo album, the highly acclaimed: 'Sleep'. 2006 brought a new chapter with the release of 'The Financiers of Samsara'. October 1 2009, the long awaited third full length album, 'The Ovaltine Prophecies', finally arrives.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Telefuzz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.