1. Tempel originates from Phoenix, Arizona consisting of only two members, Ryan Wenzel (Guitars, Keys) and Rich Corle (Drums). Founded back in 2003 the group started as a full band and eventually dwindled down to its remaining two core members in 2006. Instead of pursuing new members Ryan and Rich decided to continue on as a two-piece instrumental band and focus their craft in the recording studio. Eventually demos for the songs “Mountain” and “Rising From The Abyss” were recorded creating the foundation of their sound. 

Blending the darker elements of metal with the melodic, the duo continued to construct demos for their first full-length album. Covering all instrumentation between the two members Tempel went into the studio in 2009 to start the recording for their debut full length “On The Steps Of The Temple”. In 2012 the duo completed the album and self released it digitally to positive feedback and reviews. 

In 2013 Tempel signed with Prosthetic Records who will re-release “On The Steps Of The Temple” physically and digitally worldwide on January 21, 2014. 

2. Tempel (aka Simon Enarsson) is a modern art pop singer from Sweden who has been active since 2001, when he recorded the famous cover of "Some girls are bigger than others" by The Smiths, which later Nisse Bergman remixed for the dance floor charts.

The following years he spent deepely devoted to his fencing career but in the early spring of 2006 he got involved once again with DJ Nisse Bergman. After adding Erik Öberg and Stellan Nilsson to their new band, they started recording as The Nisse Bergman Experince.  

Read more at http://sv.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simon_Enarsson or http://www.tempel.has.it/

3. Tempel is a doom metal trio consisting of the Gjermundsrød brothers from Andebu, Vestfold, Norway. Kjetil (Kvelertak) plays the drums, Espen wields the guitar and Inge lays down the bass and vocals. They also bring on Andreas Espolin Johnsen as a live guitarist. The band saw its light in Christmas 2011, and they are expected to release their debut album during spring 2015.

4. Filip Leyman, the producer of the Anna von Hausswolff album Ceremony, wanted to start at new band. He sought a project where he had full artistic freedom, and one where he could fulfill his dream of combining modern technology – synthesizers, drum machines and samplers – with acoustic instruments and classic instrumentation. Albert af Ekenstam, guitarist with Sumie Nagano among other things, felt exactly the same. He also sought a platform for developing his own ideas, and an opportunity to perform the kind of music that lay closest to his heart. In agreement on these commons goals and visions, the two shook hands. Thus Tempel was born.

Since that day, two years have passed. During this time the project has matured and evolved, protected from public view. The group has also received a new member, the artist Love Hultén, whose extraordinary visual ideas has come to play an important part of Tempel as a whole.

On sporadically recurring but efficiently executed studio sessions, the music of Tempel has gradually developed in the underground studio of Filip Leyman. In a surprisingly natural way, the music had soon developed into a kind of post-rock, in which electronic genres meet heavy, deep, rock. For the listeners inner eye, vast and barren lands stretches out, without end.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tempel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.