SOUNDS NOTHING LIKE EVANESCENCE! Yes we have a female singer but shes got more balls then you! Our sound is more a blend of Trad/Thrash/ and Death Metal aspects.
For all up to date and accurate information regarding Temtris including latest interviews, tour dates, photos, videos, latest releases and more, we suggest you visit the official Temtris website.

Temtris formed in the year 2000 in Sydney with Wayne Campbell ( Formally from Mortal Sin) on Drums , Anthony Fox on Guitar and Genevieve Rodda on Vocals. Temtris was later joined with lew Smith on Guitar to record the first album Threshold in 2002. This album was self released and sold in limited quanities at shows only and is now currently unavailable. 

In 2006 Gavin Swan joined Temtris to play bass and Tom Wallace was replacing Wayne on the drums. Temtris was back in the studio to record the second album Masquerade. This was released with worldwide distribution through Battlegod productions in 2007 and is currently sold out.

Temtris had some more member changes with Dale Green replacing Gavin on Bass in 2007 and later on James Rodwell taking up the Drum position from Tom.
Temtris continued to tour up and down the East Coast whilst writting material for the 3rd Album. 

Unfortunately James could not commit anymore time to Temtris in 2010 and another drummer was to be found. Benjamin Hart was to complete the lineup and recording started on the 3rd Album Shallow Grave. 

Temtris toured across Australia , playng shows in Adelaide, Melbourne and Brisbane.
In 2013 Shallow Grave was almost complete and ready for release when Dale Green decided to leave Temtris . Adam Wootherspoon took over and the show went on with album number 3's launch at Sydneys Valve Bar on the 28th march 2014.
Temtris was proud to announce it had the support for "Accept" at the Factory theatre in Sydney in November of 2014. Playing to a sold out crowd of 800!

Benjamin Hart and Lew Smith decided to move on from Temtris after this show and follow other musical goals and Temtris was lucky enough to have orignal drummer Wayne Campbell back behind the kit in January of 2015 to start the writting of the 4th Album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Temtris">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.