There are multiple artists using this name.

1. Tension is a heavy/power metal band from Baltimore, United States formed in 1984 by Tom Gattis (Wardog/Ballistic) and released only one full-length album Breaking Point in 1986.

2. A Straight Edge Hardcore / Punk band from POMPANO BEACH, Florida, US released by Uprising Records (Sean Muttaqi) as well Endless Fight Records.

3. Tension is a Taiwanese R&B/pop group, signed by EMI Taiwan. The band consists of 5 members - Brian Fong, John Baik, Jimmy Hung, Andy Lee, and Raymond Hu.
They were discovered during a performance at a local bar in Los Angeles by Taiwanese artist/producer David Tao. A record contract was offered to them a few months after, which sent them all to Taiwan as one of the first Asian-American groups to hit the market. Their first record album, "Smart" released in 2001, sold over 200,000 copies in a few months, giving them the highest first-week album sales during its release. After their success of touring and promoting their first album, they headed back to the states to work on their second album. While TENSION was recording their next album, a legal dispute was placed against their first record label, Shock Records, making the group place a hold on its production. Their second album, "Gotta be Your Man", was released in 2003. TENSION received Best Album and Best Hit Single at the Singapore awards, and they were nominated at Golden Melody Awards for Best Group. They signed with record label, EMI, for their 3rd album, "Planet love", which was pushed for an early release a few months after. They also recorded a compilation album titled "Story". 

4. Tension, a club/vocal house project of late 80's/early 90's, who had a big club hit with their "It's a place called heaven". 

5. Tension are a four piece Melbourne based Australian technical/nu-metal band, sharing similarities with bands like Deftones, Meshuggah and Isis. They released a self titled EP in 2002, and an album "The Blind Leading the Deaf Following the Dumb" in 2005.

6. Tension is a punk rock band from Leamington Ontario, Canada.

7. Tension is Punk/Pop band from Rhinebeck, New York.

8. Tension is a deathcore band from Guadalajara, Mexico comprised of 

9. Thrash metal band from New Plymouth, New Zealand circa 1989-1993. Formerly Das Unter Mensh. Released ep Sound As a Weapon, single Dead Souls and Winning Hearts and Minds as Das Unter Mensh. Played with Sepultura at Auckland Town Hall 1992 and toured with Pungent Stench 1993. Most band members too stoned to care anymore split soon after.

10. A power violence/ grind core band from the Los Angeles area that released a demo in 2011 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tension">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.