Teodor started studying classical piano at the age of fourteen. Eight years later his symphony orchestra piece 'Dreams' was performed at Berwaldhallen in Stockholm. At the age of 22, Teodor became the youngest student at The Royal Academy of Music to accomplish that.  

Despite his young age, Teodor Wolgers is already a highly meritorious neo-classical composer.

His instrumental and often melancholic piano music has already amassed over 40 million streams on Spotify alone, and his most recent rework of Daniel Avery & Alessandro Cortini’s 'Illusion of Time' was hailed as a ”Cinematic and optimistic masterpiece” by Sian Eleri on BBC Radio 1.

​In June 2021 Teodor released his debut album 'Distractions In A Capitalist World'; a highly ambitious concept album questioning the structures of, and the human condition under, modern day capitalism. The ideas revolving around how the ceaseless flood of distractions brought on by capitalism has the tendency to distract us from what’s really important in life. The music on the album offers a place to rest, and an opportunity to distract oneself away from capitalism’s unrealistic demands on self-realization.

To further illustrate this, he has turned to the Swedish Yale professor and academic superstar, Martin Hägglund, who’s doing a reading from his international best seller This Life on one of the album tracks. Teodor also invites the American poet, Rena Priest, who’s reading of her poem The Index serves as the album closer.
Released together with the album, is also a commentary track where Teodor reflects on the themes of the album, using metaphors from a late night walk in Stockholm to further explore the questions and thoughts that the album addresses. 

​Apart from his solo career, Teodor is also a producer and a song-writer; most recently having worked with artists such as Janice, lennix and Elias. In other words, there’s much more than just neo-classical composing on Teodor’s palette; he has written music for symphony orchestras, big bands and for his own pop project Wilder Gray, and been a backing musician for Duvchi and LÉON.

In 2019 Teodor released his first trilogy of EP’s titled 'memories', 'sensations' and 'hopes', the latter widely exceeding his expectations reaching a stellar 20 million streams alone. Since then, he’s signed a record deal with [PIAS] who’s released his previous three EP's 'notion', 'nocturnes' and 'narratives', signed a booking agent deal with All Things Live and released a well-recieved rework of Kleerup’s 'Lovers Table' (ft. AlunaGeorge). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teodor+Wolgers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.