There are multiple artists named Terminus:

1) Ambient project from Houston, TX, United States, formed by Pamela Passmore and Ure Thrall, both of whom were later involved in Asianova along with Jim Wilson and Bonnie McNairn from Voice of Eye.

2) Terminus were an anarcho-punk band from Scunthorpe, UK, who gigged and recorded in the 1980s and 1990s. They recorded several singles and two albums on the Words Of Warning and Campary labels. A compilation album, "Graveyard of Dreams" was released on the Boss Tuneage label.

3) Terminus were a death metal band with industrial and electronic influences, based in Maidstone, United Kingdom, during the mid 1990s. They released two self-financed albums during this time, Vision and Two Stage From Revolution.

4) Terminus is an active heavy metal band from Northern Ireland. Their first full lenght album "The Reaper's Spiral" was released by Stormspell Records in June 2015.

5) Terminus are a French duo whose music varies from spacey instrumentals to delicate 70's influenced pop songs. Influences could include Broadcast and Air.

6) Terminus was a industrial metal band from Pacifica, CA, USA.

7) Terminus were a Morbid Angel influenced death metal band from Stockton, California in the early to mid '90s who had one release on Stinkfist Records, titled "Creations" (1994).

8) Terminus is a drum and bass artist from the UK. He's been producing since 1998 but didn't appear on the radar until 2010 under the Moniker of Terminus after releasing on Soul Deep Recordings, SP Breakz ltd and also remixing for Bay B Kane, One of the founding fathers of Drum and Bass. Terminus is known for his atmospheric rolling tracks being tagged as one of those artists within the scene still using funk breaks (edits) and atmospheric sounds being tagged as drumfunk.

9) Often misnamed post-psy ambient punk-thrash band, featuring guitarist Gareth Thomasson on guitar. Nyan-inspired vocals, featured mediocre success, but have yet to play their first live set.

10) With just one release in 1986 called "Collected Works", Terminus were an Avant-garde band from the Netherlands fusing several styles, like Free-Jazz, Metal, Minimal, and alot more into one unique mix... pretty ahead of their time! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Terminus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.