Hailing from London Ontario, Terrorhorse is the brainchild of five musicians with a vision of creating technical music that's accessible to everyone. Sprung from relationships forged online, Terrorhorse formed in November of 2007. Darryl Bedard (vocals), Richard LeBlanc (guitars), Cameron Fleury (drums), Aaron Duynhoven (bass/samples), and Matt MacIntosh (guitars) combined their individual influences together and used their ongoing life experiences as the inspiration to compose the aggressive, dynamically orchestrated original pieces which have captivated audiences with live performances all along the Windsor-Toronto corridor and the surrounding areas of South-Western Ontario; with thousands more worldwide staying connected via the band's online presence. 

Since their first show in June 2008, Terrorhorse has progressed through the local music scene, headlining several recent shows while performing as the local support for such notable acts as The Black Dalhia Murder, Parkway Drive, My Children My Bride, Stick to Your Guns, Veil of Maya, Born of Osiris, Misery Index, Soylent Green, garnering praise from their fellow musicians for the quality of their music as well as their proficiency.

With momentum from their nomination in the Metal category at the 2009 Jack Richardson Music Awards, Terrorhorse was approached by a local live production company to record their set in the very place the nomination was announced. TERRORHORSE LIVE@LONDON MUSIC HALL was recorded April 26 2009 by five cameras on stage and one overhead on a crane with industry standard audio capture equipment on hand for an incredible set due to be released through the Terrorhorse Facebook fan page as soon as they become available. Just a few days beforehand, Cameron Fleury was favourited by sickdrummer.com with an interview to follow in the coming months. 

To support their self-released EP 'This Ain't No Goddamn Mirage' Terrorhorse has set off on a 23 date tour of Western Canada, spanning from April 30 until May 31. With five dates in British Columbia and seven dates in Alberta, the band aims to expose more people to their music and continue to build on their fanbase. While on the road Terrorhorse will be available for interviews with members of the media and are seeking promotional consideration following the conclusion of their tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/TERRORHORSE">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.