There are two groups named Terror Squad :

1) Terror Squad is an American hip hop collective that was first established in 1998. Based in The Bronx borough of New York City, the members of Terror Squad collectively debuted on a song in member Fat Joe's album Don Cartagena. Terror Squad released its eponymous debut, The Album, in 1999, with its first major hit "Whatcha Gon' Do", credited mostly to Big Pun, who died of a heart attack in 2000. After Big Pun's death, his longtime partners Cuban Link and Triple Seis left the group and were subsequently replaced by Remy Martin (later known as Remy Ma) and Tony Sunshine.

In 1998, the members of Terror Squad debuted as a group on Fat Joe's album Don Cartagena. Terror Squad in its debut album Terror Squad: The Album consisted of rappers Fat Joe, Big Pun, Cuban Link, Prospect, Armageddon, and Triple Seis. 

As the group was on hiatus following Pun's death, most of its former members fell into obscurity, with Fat Joe having the most successful solo career among all the former members.

The group reunited and released their second album, True Story, in 2004. It included the summer club hit "Lean Back," produced by Scott Storch, which peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and 24 in the UK. A remix to "Lean Back" featured Lil Jon, Mase and Eminem was released on Fat Joe's 2005 album All or Nothing. Although the album failed to spawn other hit singles, Fat Joe and Remy, who contributed the vocals to "Lean Back", went on to release high-selling solo albums in 2006.  Fat Joe commented in a 2006 interview that Armageddon and Prospect had become lazy. Terror Squad signed to Koch Records in 2007. Apart from the three new members, DJ Khaled and Cool & Dre are retained as regular crew along with Tony Sunshine.


2) Japanese TERROR SQUAD(sonicriot & Lord of nightmare) began playing in our earliest incarnation in 1992, covering our favorite hardcore, punk, and metal songs. writing songs and recording demos, the band slowly started to progress. 

As the member changing on countless occasions. 
Frankensteiner(a.k.a JOKER) that beats of aggressive rhythm joins in 1996.
The album was recorded like an absent bassist, and the guitarist "Lord of nightmare" is playing the bass in the 1st Full length album. 
And, 1st Full Length album "The wild stream of eternal sin" in 1999 was released from the worldchaos production.

brutal bass player "Anarchy beast" joined in 2000
At the same time, "Deadringer" came to go with the band as a film staff. 
After that, the band digested a lot of Show, and worked hard at the tune making with steady steps. 
1st album released in 1999 records 10,000 sales all over the world. 

And, time passes, and the recording of 2nd album started in the summer of 2005. 
And, the 2nd album long-awaited "Chaosdragon rising" was released in May 2006. 

The artwork formally received "Lunatc woe(a.k.a.Hesomoge)" that was the relation since the demo tape age as a member. 
It opposed the sound of "TERROR SQUAD", and a wonderful art that constructed a new outlook on the world was shown. 
And, DEADRINGER was formally embraced from this album as a member. 

TERROR SQUAD official website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Terror+Squad">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.