TERZIJ DE HORDE combine an amalgam of progressive black and doom metal with a rawness and live presence reminiscent of extreme hardcore or chaotic screamo.
 
Terzij de Horde is old Dutch for “set apart from the horde”. It is a line from the poem “Einde” (ending) by legendary Dutch poet Hendrik Marsman. Marsman is an inspiration to the band, as are many other authors and philosophers in the same dark, vitalistic vein. In 2015 Terzij de Horde created a limited edition book, including 14 translated poems of Marsman into English to commemorate the 75th year of Marsman’s passing. It was accompanied by a song with the texts of poems ‘Wacht’ and ‘Lex Barbarorum’, the first Terzij de Horde song in Dutch.
 
Starting out as Liar Liar Cross On Fire in 2007, the band grew away from its sonic roots in grindcore and crusty hardcore, and toward more dark atmospherics. Throughout their existence, the band has been described as a mix between Khanate, Wolves in the Throne Room, Deathspell Omega and Neil Perry.
 
In April 2010, Terzij de Horde played their first show under that name with Altar of Plagues, Year of No Light and Starve to release their EP “A Rage of Rapture Against the Dying of the Light”. Since then, the band has received widespread international attention and many very positive reviews both of their recorded music and of their explosive live performances. In June 2011, the EP was rereleased on vinyl by Antithetic Records (Kayo Dot, maudlin of the Well, Young & In The Way).
 
Throughout the years following this release, Terzij de Horde played all over the Netherlands, toured the UK, Ireland and Germany, shared the stage with the likes of Liturgy, Anaal Nathrakh, Bone Awl, Envy and God Dethroned and played festivals like Siege Of Limerick, Incubate, Doom Over Leipzig, Black Metal Desecration and State-X New Forms.
 
In 2011, Terzij de Horde released a split 12” with fellow countrymen Starve entitled and themed “A Chosen Hollow”, on which Lurker (lurkerspath.com) said:
“.... Relying less on dissonance and more on moving atmospherics than their debut ever suggested, this is a startling leap forward for a band already ahead of the game. The welding of slow-burning doom and cacophonic black metal returns here, but the hardcore punk assault has been toned down as the band edges closer to their musical ideals. As Alex put it: “There’s nothing more awe-inspiring in life than witnessing a band growing into its own beastly element of relentless, cathartic rage.”


Terzij de Horde - ‘Self ’

2015 sees Terzij de Horde return with their first full-length. The album focuses on the problem of self, with each track exploring different ways to live or fail to live with self and world, and the struggles these paths and strategies create: the blindness, suffering, desire for release, for the destruction of self and others, and the turning toward or away from life. 

Self as prison, self as a source of power, self as vessel for manipulation by outside forces, self as shield and as inner world, self as medium for Dionysian rapture, self as something to be overcome. In the six songs that constitute Self, the rage of black metal is paired with a cathartic destruction as well as a contemplative, sometimes crawling melancholy. Instead of navel gazing or the worship of constructs, Self is analysis forced. A cerebral celebration of liberation at all costs and a requiem for spheres rendered apart. 

Under the name of Footprints in the Void, the band provides a live platform for doom, black, sludge, noise and drone acts in their home city of Utrecht. Bands involved were, among others, Thou, Aderlating, Alkerdeel, Celeste, Moloch, and upcoming are Conan, Dragged Into Sunlight and Aluk Todolo.
 
Reviews of "A Rage of Rapture Against The Dying Of The Light"
 
Metalreview.com:
“…4 songs that will certainly appeal to fans of Krallice, Liturgy and WITTR with their mix of shrill, melodic and complex black metal littered with moments of feedback, ambiance and droning post-rock segues.”
 
Terrorizer Magazine:
“Layering their rage with more rage (…) the crawling ugliness in TDH, one not that dissimilar to their neighbours in Amen Ra, has a surprisingly positive message. “
 
Metalreviews.com:
“…this EP from Dutch newcomers Terzij de Horde is worth the attention of any follower of the genre’s more intriguing modern realms (….) I see this band producing something immense.”
 
Attila the Hun (blackmetalownsyou.blogspot.com):
“..a great debut, I’ll be definitely looking forward to more material by these guys, highly recommended!”
 
Aversionline.com:
“…and an impressive debut it is. Expect four songs in about a half-hour that seamlessly combine black metal, doom, and even what could arguably be referred to as subtle "screamo"/hardcore influences. Yeah, I know that the prospect of fusing anything of that nature with black metal sends up the "bullshit flag", but trust me, there's nothing to worry about. This shit is great.” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Terzij+De+Horde">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.