"Formed in 1993 in Essen, Germany,TESTIFY stormed onto the american aggro-metal scene March 15,1994 with the critically acclaimed national release 01. The band has been dubbed the next Ministry by such prominent publications such as Alternative Press, RIP, B-Side, Industrial Nation, Seconds, Ink 19, CMJ, ARC, Pit, Gear and Mean Street."

"The current TESTIFY lineup includes Rascal Nikov, Myk Jung, Moses W., Eddie Logan, George Mckinley and Mathias Black. Rascal and Myk came to the group from the legendary renowned electrobody music band THE FAIR SEX whose CD Machine Bites was released nationally in the United States in 1994. The band has toured extensively with Die Krupps and Armageddon Dildos in support of their releases."

"The second release Ballroom Killer was mixed by famed Ministry crew Keith "Fluffy" Auerbach and Howie Beno. The third record Mmmyaoooo record was produced by Metal Blade artist Skrew and with it the status of being a sideproject was blown away. TESTIFY has developed into a real band thing - a unit of sincerity. While the debut was animated by a spirit of roughness and quick work, Mmmyaoooo is the product of one year's work.The result is a list of eleven tracks which are filled with power, speed, brutality, insane humor and... atmosphere."

"The fourth album Crack the Mind features mixes by Die Krupps, Die Warzau and Plastic Noise Experience. Crack the Mind incorporates five brand new titles and four remix war titles from Mmmyaoooo. TESTIFY continues to blow away its peers with razor sharp treated vocals, powerful lyrics, well placed samples and chunky guitars. Crack the Mind is a dark progression in the world of computerized industrial metal!"

""Triviality Beyond Acceptance" is the fifth release of Aggro Metalists TESTIFY . The band has proven itself time and again as the hardest and most creative guitar driven aggro industrial band since Ministry. Testify has garnered the praise and recognition they deserve with worldwide critical acclaim as well as notice by fellow peer bands who have contributed on their records including Ministry, Skrew, Die Krupps, Die Warzau, Plastic Noise Experience...and soon to be KMFDM. The band has toured with Die Krupps and Armageddon Dildos as well as received video airplay on MTV and regular radio and club play over the years. The story and buzz on TESTIFY continues to build after almost a decade of work. The self produced "Triviality Beyond Acceptance" will prove to be Testify's strongest and hardest hitting effort to date with eleven solid tracks highlighted by the seminal"Under the cold moon". Remixes to follow....stay tuned."

"'Be aware of the snarling voices.... they might catch your brain to control your next nightmare!!!'"
-From: http://vr.dv8.net/test_bio.html  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Testify">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.