1) An Italian thrash band, recorded one album self titled "Testimonia" in 1993.

2) Ismini Sakelaropoulou, was born and raised in Patra, Greece. She has cooperated on numerous theatrical plays and moreover, she cooperated with one of the most famous and accomplished Greek composers, Mimis Plessas, for a musical play! 

In September of 2006, theatrologist Ismini Sakelaropoulou decided to make a personal effort on the metal, mainstream and atmospheric sound paths, by creating the band ISMINI. 

Producer & main composer of this project was Vangelis Yalamas. ISMINI's debut album, "Black Swan" released in 2008 and distributed by Odeon Music! Debut album contained 10 songs of ethereal/atmospheric melodies and songs... "Black Swan" received very positive reviews from the media, claiming the band to be among the most talented newcomers in the metal scene...

The artwork has been created by Natalie Shau (Lacuna Coil), Derz Design (Nightfall, Pyramaze) and Christophe Szpajdel (Emperor). Photography by Seth Siro Anton, one of the most successful artist & photographer in the industry worldwide, having worked with bands such as Caliban, Paradise Lost. 

The band tried to promote "Black swan" and so appeared live in quite a few venues all around Patra and Athens, with known bands from Greece!

Some first samples are available through here: the band's official myspace 
profile, www.myspace.com/testimonia where the band in its few time here, has known a great acceptance from the metal fans and has established a small fan base! 

In the begining of 2009, the band decided to change its name to TESTIMONIA. The band stronger than ever with a full lineup, prepare the new second CD & schedule the upcoming live appearances... 

The line-up of the band (after some changes) is the following:
Ismini Sakelaropoulou: Vocals, Piano
Dionisis Chachabis: Drums,
George Barbatsis: Guitars, 
Yannis Marizas: Guitars,
Dimitris Bassos: Bass
* Live shows: Keyboards, by Pantelis Kalogiros <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Testimonia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.