TEURGIA is a Hungarian pagan metal band. (2003-present)

TEURGIA was established in Nagykanizsa, Hungary on 15th January 2003. The formation that time was the following: Csaba Czirják - vocal, János Molnár - bass, Zoltán Pintér - drums, Szilárd Mosdósi - guitar 
Not much later we recorded a 'home-made' demo (with the title of 'Decay', with 3 Hungarian songs), which was not popularized because of its quality - only 20 copies were made. In June 2003 Teurgia had its debut, and then at the talent contest of Rockmaraton we won an opportunity to appear on the main stage in 2004. 

2004.
In autumn of 2004 we had our first studio-experience: we recorded the ’Mors Tua Ero’-material, four Hungarian songs were recorded on it. We published it in author's edition and made about 100 copies.
During the year of 2004 we could play as the guest of Benediction (UK), and later with the Italian Vexed. Because of the 'Mors Tua Ero'-material we appeared in the 'Gorezone' programme of 'Tilos radio - Hungary' in November 2004 and we got a chance for a two-hour-interview. We had more and more concerts, and luckily we got better and better reviews. Then we realised that our music would be more developed with two guitarists therefore we tried to find a new member. In December 2004 Mihály Major joined us but unfortunately, several months later we broke up with him. The band had a short depression period after that. We wanted to create the new material but there was always something that set us back to do it. So we kept putting it off. 

2005.
Teurgia were invited to Morarock festival in Italy in 2005 and as the result of it we got a special award at the talent contest. After we had arrived home, Ádam Somogyi joined us, who could integrate into the band very soon. Since 2005 we started to rewrite our songs for two guitars. 

2006.
By May we could record the material - 'On The Way To The End' / 'A Vég Útjan' - which we had been postponing for a long time. On 9th August 2006 our new demo was released in author's edition. There are six songs on it, now at first two songs in English, and the demo has the programme time of 30 minutes. We appeard again in the 'Gorezone' programme of 'Tilos Radio - Hungary' in October 2006. The band got a lot of gig requests from many places. 

2007.
Until spring all of the 'On The Way To The End' CDs were sold out. Then we made the demo downloadable for everybody on our website. At the begining of summer 2007 We decided that it is time to start the recording of the first full length, but unfortunately Csaba Czirják has left the band before We started the studio works. The perfect new vocalist was found not as far from the band as We thought. Ádám Somogyi became our new singer in June of 2007. 
Teurgia went through a strange rebirth after the new 4-membered line up came alive. A few gigs were made with the new line up and We finished the recordings with Soma on vocals in August of 2007. The final master have been done at autumn of 2008.

2008.
January - We signed to Hungaryan Records, and our first full lenght, called "With True Faith" have been released on 14th of April in 2008 and distributed in 16 countries: Argentina, Belgium, Colombia, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Russia, United Kingdom, USA. 

Reviews about the album:
Fémforgács (HU) 7,5/10
Hammer World (HU) 8/10
Kronos Mortus (HU) 9/10
Nuskull (HU) 7,8/10
Somniorum Webzin (HU) 9/10
Stygian Shadows (HU) 8/10
Metal Observer (CAN) 6,5/10
Rockpolis-Media (RO) 8/10
Heavy Music (RU) 9/10

We made 19 gigs in 2008. There were gigs in Slovakia and Hungary too. We played with Sear Bliss (HU), Bornholm (HU), Svart Crown (FR), Otargos (FR), Defiant (CRO), Vulvathrone (SLO), Fintroll (FIN), Demonical (SWE), etc...

2009.
15th of January – Teurgia is 6 years old with two demo, one EP, and a full length album behind us.
February – János Molnár finally became the only offical Hungarian Spector Bass endorser.
March – Now we are working with full force on our second full length album.
May – Szilárd Mosdósi has left the band.

2010.
We had a lot of technical problems until May. Zoli has left the band. We want to say Thank You for him for the past years!
May - We are looking for new members and starting to arrange some gigs finally!
June - The new line up is ready! We are looking for gigs and working on the second full length album with full force!

Current line up is: 
János Molnár - bass
Ádám Somogyi - guitar
Zsolt Lédeczi - vocal 
Balázs Pőcz - drums
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teurgia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.