Teutoburg Forest is true Elitist, Satanic, Anti-Cosmic, Black Metal. 

Born out of years of frustration and a life time aspiration. Teutoburg Forest was created in late 2006, when unable to find musicians to play Left Hand Path music, Donn decided to preform all musical / vocal / artistic / design / production duties. This was a problem seeing that Donn had only been playing Bass for one year previous, and so had to learn to play the guitar/drums whilst writing Teutoburg Forest first few albums. Donn then came in contact with a musician titled 'kriegner' and accepted him as a contributor to Teuts' writing. Though after a pitiful contribution by 'Kriegner', and other musicians following him. Donn realized the inferiority of pathetic individuals who lacked the strength of will. Teut reverted back to soloy be written by Donn (as they say, if you want something done right, you have to do it yourself) . After the Summer of 2007 Donn had completed the first drafts for 'Chao ab Ordo' and 'Anti-Subhuman Scum' and so decided it was time to preform live. After much searching, the drummer titled 'Lord' was found. Keeping with the nature of Teut (a expression of an individuals anti-cosmic emotions) Donn decided preform Teut live as a two piece to keep the expression as close to its true nature as possible. Whilst preparing for the live shows with 'Lord', Donn wrote the third 'Cult of the Individual' and forth 'Scarification' Teut albums, experimenting with different styles of portraying the Self. After five shows, Donn decided that Teut should revert once more to a solo project, to focus on the completion of the albums to a satisfactory standard. 
The three albums present on this page are the result of one years work (easter 2007 - easter 2008) The fourth (Scarification) is yet to be completed, though will be in the near future. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Teutoburg+Forest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.