Tha God Fahim is a US rapper and producer currently working out of Atlanta, GA. 

Also known as the Dump Gawd and the 100 Tape Legend, Fahim has consistently put out project after project since first coming onto the underground scene in 2015 with his tape "Shadows Over Nazereth". It wasn't until releases like "TGIF", "Tha Dark Shogunn Saga" Vols. 1 and 2, and the "Dollar Menu" series, that Fahim would begin to be talked about by hip hop heads.

Early Life

While his family is from Chicago, Fahim was born in Ohio, and would move back and forth throughout his childhood and adolescence between Chicago and Atlanta - even living in Colorado for a time. He currently reps Atlanta, GA. According to an interview with The Journalist Sinseer, Fahim first got into producing through a group from Chicago called The Freshmen who would give him tips on production which he would take note from when trying to develop his own sound.

Career

Most, if not all, of Fahim's projects are self-released through Fahim's bandcamp. And although labels like Low Tech, Daupe! and others have pressed vinyls of his releases, it wasn't until 2019 when he would officially release something with a label. This was his album "Star Truth" - which came out through Effiscienz.

Later that same year, Fahim would drop "Dump Assassins" a full length LP collaboration with veteran producer DJ Muggs, through his own label Soul Assassins.

In 2020, Fahim dropped "Lost Kingz" - his third outside venture, this time working with Nature Sounds.

Dump Squad

Fahim works extensively with Mach-Hommy aswell as producer Camoflauge Monk and also artists from the Dump camp such as JuJu Gotti, Kungg Fuu, Heem Stogied, Smoke, Anibus, and more recently Stack Skrilla and Jay NiCE.

Griselda

Early in his career, when he was still working in the barber shop, Fahim would meet Buffalo NY rapper Westside Gunn who he would eventually build a friendship with. When Fahim needed a ride home one day, it turned out that they were next door neighbors. Fahim would go on to produce three joints for the Griselda head ("Bon Jovi", "Fukk (Stan Smiths)" and "King City") but after a dispute with GxFR they ultimately ended up falling out. Though they have since reconciled no collabs seem to be forthcoming. Despite the beef, it was actually through Westside Gunn that Fahim actually met his most frequent collaborator Mach-Hommy.

Other artists Tha God Fahim has worked with include: Vinnie Paz, Darkim Be Allah, Domo Genesis, Your Old Droog, Koncept Jack$on, Jak Progresso, Chris Skillz, al.divino, Estee Nack, Roc Marciano, Ray Vendetta, Left Lane Didon, Ichiban Hashface, and others, as well as producers such as Knxwledge, Nicholas Craven, August Fanon, Jlvsn, Evidence, Farma G aka Farma Beats, Futurewave, Graymatter, Eyedee, and many many more.

Discography

Of his extensive and ever growing catalogue of music, some of his notable tapes include:

Shadows Over Nazereth (2015, debut tape)
Blvk Pearl (2015, collaboration with Camoflauge Monk)
TGIF (2016, executive produced by Mach-Hommy)
Tha Dark Shogunn Saga Vol. 1 (2016)
Tha Dark Shogunn Saga Vol. 2 (2017)
Dollar Menu 1-3  (2017, collaborations with Mach-Hommy)
Dump Goat (2017, compilation)
Dump Olympics: Wide Berth (2018)
Wide Berth (2018. executive produced by Mach-Hommy)
Tha Myth Who Never Quit (2019, collaboration with Nicholas Craven)
Star Truth (2019, released on Effiscienz)
Dump Assassins (2019, collaboration with DJ Muggs, on Soul Assassins)
Lost Kingz (2020, released on Nature Sounds)
Shot Clock King Vols. 1 & 2 (2021, collaborations with Nicholas Craven)
Six Ring Champ (2022)

http://thagodfahim.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tha+God+Fahim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.