There are three bands known as The Strange:

1) The Strange Post-Punk/Alternative Rock from Burnley, Lancashire.
"These teens were innocently listening to Arctic Monkeys and reading Camus in their Burnley bedrooms when they got caught in a time warp. Shunted back through a cloud of smoke in Martin Hannett’s studio, they landed at a Manchester Musicians Collective gig circa 1978. Although they made it back to the present by stealing a pair of flabby wings from Mark E. Smith, The Strange have never been the same since…"
http://soundcloud.com/wearethestrange/tracks

2) The Strange is a collaboration between Chris Eckman (The Walkabouts) and the Croatian Surf-Rock band The Bambi Molesters. 

Their debut album is called "Nights of Forgotten Films", and was released 1st June 2004 on Dancing Bear Records from Zagreb, Croatia. This 11-songs-2-inch-tape album was recorded in January 2004., engineered and co-produced by Phil Brown.

3) The Strange 
Featured nationally on NPR and recently on MTV's Real World this Detroit trio, Free Press pop music critic Brian McCollum claims, "deftly tread a line between high-flying art-rock and classic rock's more organic, pastoral environs. A liquid, languid mood dominates the sophomore album, but a tense current rides beneath these seven tracks to give the proceedings a visceral edge. This is a pair of gifted players -- drummer & keyboardist Erik Nordin, guitarist  & outstanding vocalist Brent McKay -- who deliver a skilled and polished performance without descending into wankery. "The Strange," recorded and mixed in Detroit, St. Louis and Nashville and clearly was envisioned and executed with pristine precision. This record steers clear of the sterility to which so many similar projects succumb. Although there's a modern sheen to the production that recalls the work of Radiohead, this is a band with a distinct ear for the '70s -- the rustic side of Led Zeppelin, Pink Floyd circa "The Wall," Queen with the pomp just reined in." 
 
The Strange have released two albums, "Drop Dead by the Microphone" and the current release the "Blue" album.

4) The Strange are a six piece psychedelic garage band from Melbourne, Australia.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Strange">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.