There is more than one artist with this name. Most commonly refers to a band from California.

The Day is about the moment and how we live in it. We want our music to represent that. We are and have been consumed with the fate of our souls as well as humanity. So much inequality and injustice goes on in this world and that really affected us before we were ever in a band. Performing music was the platform we saw that gave us hope. We wanted to live like we dream. Our goal as a band was to always remain sincere, honest, and dedicated to each other and amongst society. Above all though, our lyrics have driven us the furthest.. "Maybe today or maybe tomorrow/ Just like the seasons together we follow/ And I believe we are broken in pieces / Well finally something is wrong"(Belongs to you, 2003). We couldn't help but be drawn to the reflective nature of the words. It is indeed about blending into your environment in a harmonious nature, which by no means should diminish the fire that burns in you.

The Day is Rameen Khan (vocal/guitars), Brian White (drums), Garrett Hedman (bass), and myself, Saier Sadiq (guitars). So many image molded groups with corporate values have passed since we first played in 1999, in a dinky coffee house called Lulu's Beehive on Ventura Blvd ; and so not surprisingly the souls of bands like Nirvana, Stone Roses, and the Verve have rarely surfaced since. It is the inspiration of their songs we have loved so much that has conquered our doubts, fears, and heartache in this cutthroat industry. Despite going through so many setbacks that many in this profession inevitably goes through, our current lineup seems to have the most chemistry since its conception. Rameen and I , have been childhood friends and loved JAMC, Oasis, Ride, and other acts which seemed to stand out because it was evident they put as much effort into what they were saying as they did in their song arrangements. In " Fine Friend" Pale Saints singer Merial Barham sings "I am tired of holding my breath/ There's too much that's been left to say/ But i know tomorrow the smile on your face/ Will smooth these thoughts away" The universal message and timeless lyrics which anyone can relate to was something we did not take lightly.

Despite his love and prolific talent for writing songs we couldn't hear enough of, original singer and founding member Faran Khan, left the band in 2005. However, many of the songs we wrote together are still with us and he is an integral part of The Day albeit a different role.

Souvenir for the Soul ( debut album), which was recorded in 2001 was our first crack at trying to form an identity. We were new to the whole process but we feel learned alot and poured our heart into that album.si We were mentally and physically consumed with the process of writing, recording and composing. It did not deter us from performing. From 1999 to 2003 the band performed at every conceivable venue in the LA and Orange County averaging at least 40 shows a year. Footage from some shows made their way on to a commercial made and edited by original drummer Brent Bishop who was also a a film major at the time . The commercial eventually got airplay at the 2002 VMA's . In the end of 2004 disenchanted with the progress we had made , we set out to record a 5 song EP called Belongs To You. Music Connection gave it an endorsing thumbs up by comparing the band to the likes of Oasis and REM. We were in contact with 3 major labels but nothing came to fruition. It was during this time that everything nearly fell apart. Faran wanted out, and Cory our latest revolving drummer, who plays bass for buzz band Bobot Adrenaline could not meet the demands of our band. We were at a crossroad like never before. But there was so many songs we had written in a period of deep introspection and camaraderie which remained unsung.

Rameen who had till this point been the lead guitarist had the experience and drive necessary to take the next step. Moving to vocals and guitars was a natural evolution. Brian came to us as a blessing from a mutual friend. He has ironically become an anchor for us considering he is our 5th drummer. In 2006 the band got paid residency at the Farmacy in West Hollywood and performed there for six months weekly. It was a defining period for us. A new era had begun. We are looking forward to working on our latest album "No Finer Line" set for release in early 2009. It does feel like the band's potential may finally be realized. We are excited and anxious to finish recording so we can go back to doing what we love, playing our songs. We want to thank everyone who's been responsible for keeping us together through it all. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Day">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.