The Boys made arguably one of the best LPs of the 70s with their self-titled first album and provided the template for superior Pop Punk before even the Buzzcocks had got out of first gear.  Formed from the ashes of  '70s glam outfit The Hollywood Brats, the Boys were responsible for four albums and ten singles, several of which were released under the name "The Yobs," always released just in time for The Christmas season.   The track "First Time," from their debut EP, is a bona fide '78 second-wave UK punk classic, amidst such groups as Chelsea, The Undertones, The Lurkers, and Eater.

Yet for some reason The Boys occupy a neglected position in relation to London's early Punk scene, probably because they weren't clothed by Sex or managed by Malcolm McLaren. Being tagged the "Punk Beatles" couldn't have helped either, and by '81 they called it quits.

Plagued by mishaps, bad timing and plain bad luck they managed to keep smiling and come up with corking, hyper-speed pop classics like "Brickfield Nights" and "Rue Morgue". In short The Boys were a gem of a band and a total inspiration to any Punk band who value tunes over noise.


There are others artists with the same name:
2) Jheryl Busby signed the Abdulsamad Brothers, better known as the Boys, while employed at MCA Records. "The Boys" Khiry (born November 8, 1973), Tajh (born December 10, 1976), Hakim (born March 27, 1975), and Bilal Abdulsamad (born April 17, 1978) started singing in their hometown of Carson, CA, when Bilal was five and Khiry nine. They are best known for their 1988 hit single "Dial My Heart". Today, they live in Gambia on the West Coast of Africa

3) The Boys.  Australia (1980), Made  "When You're Lonely" 7" a nice new wave/power pop single.

4) The Boys were a Lincoln, Nebraska band power pop group. They put out three singles including "She's All Mine" (1975) and "You Make Me Shake" (1977).

5) The Boys was a powerpop group from Sweden.

6) The Boys is also an all-girl grunge band from Brisbane, Australia.  Currently unsigned, they released a self-titled 3-song EP demo (September, 2012). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Boys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.