There are 2 bands named The Seed.

1. A Roots/Reggae band from South Virginia.
With a soulful blend of Reggae, R&B, Rock and World music, The Seed delivers music that makes you feel good or just feel, period. Held together with smooth vocals, catchy hooks, and substantive lyrics The Seed's sound is one even haters have to listen to.

2. The beginning of The Seed took place on January of 2006 when Alberto (drums) and Koko (guitars) met and decided to start a project influenced by 90's & 80's metal bands like Pantera, Sepultura, Slayer, Metallica, Machine Head... Later, Sergio (bass) who played with Koko in the death metal band "Uruz", joined the band. The Seed started making music lacking of the right vocals , but the duty of getting the right singer to fit the band became a living hell. So The Seed decided to try Koko as vocalist and lead guitarrist. As a trio (Alberto:drums, Sergio: bass and Koko:guitars and vocals) The Seed recorded their first demo "Demonsterations" in 2007. After recording "Demonsterations" Alberto and The Seed parted ways, so the band was incomplete again. After a year of trying lots of drummers, Furni (Avulsed, Terroristars) entered the band replacing Alberto, adding a new level of heaviness to the music. With Furni at drums, Sergio at bass and Koko at vocals and guitars, The Seed played a couple of killer shows and began recording what will be their first record "From Nowhere To No One" (2009). At the end of the recording process Furni leaves the band because an old injury on his back, that led him to stop playing drums and focus on guitar playing. On January 2010, after lots of try-outs, Samuel (guitars) and Acaymo (drums) joined the band leading The Seed's live performance to a higher level of aggression and power. Right now The Seed have just released "From Nowhere To No One", and ready to hit the road to present "From Nowhere to No One". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Seed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.