2003: - The Sickening was founded by guitarist Markspist (ex-Slagmark) & drummer Beist (ex-Slagmark, ex- Blood Red Throne). They got some other members to complete the band: Stig (Violated, ex-Slagmark), Hans (Violated) & Ola Langli (Panzerskrekk). 
But due to other commitments, this line-up did not stay alive. - Over the next few years, more dedication was put into this and it was decided by Beist & Markspist that once again they wanted to make The Sickening into a full-time band. 2007: - The band became a full quartet with the addition of Stjernestøv on vocals and Neeraj on bass. - We recorded our first demo "Soiled Rotten" at Concrete Studio with Espen "Dr. Rock" Pedersen (Chapter in Hate, ex-Breed). - 
We started playing gigs to promote our demo. 2008: - We did lot more gigs, playing most major cities of Norway, supporting acts like Blood Tsunami, Mindgrinder & The Allseeing I, as well as festivals like Inferno Kick-off, Oslo Deathfest & Piggtrådfestivalen. -

 By end of the summer we recorded our debut album "Death Devastation Decay", also with Dr. Rock and had the album mastered by Dan Snawö (Katatonia, Bloodbath). - We had our first international gig in St. Petersburg, Russia, co-headlining the Petrogrind Festival. - Neeraj had to take a break from the band due to his studies and Olve (Sodomy Club, ex-Slagmark) stepped in to handle the bass duties. - By end of the year, The Sickening signed a 2-record deal with Spanish label Xtreem Music. 2009: - 

We continued promoting our material and playing gigs all across Norway, including few mini-tours with Blood Red Throne & Sulphur. As well as a Finland tour with Inferia. - Our debut album "Death Devastation Decay" was released through Xtreem Music. 2010: - 

Completing his studies, Neeraj has returned to the ranks of The Sickening once again for the bass - During June we toured Germany & Croatia including the Deathfeast festival (Germany). - 

Soon after the tour, the band and singer Sigve decided to part ways. - The bands original singer Stig (Violated) has once again rejoined the ranks of The Sickening. - The band signs deal with Metal Maniac Booking and Promotion Agency. PUTRID PESTILENCE AWAITS THEE!!! For Booking & Promotion, please contact: http://www.myspace.com/metalmaniacro info@metalmaniac.ro 


My Space:   www.myspace.com/thesickeningdeathmetal

Recordcompany: Xtreem Music <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Sickening">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.