The Lovetones is led by Matthew J. Tow (acoustic & electric guitars / sitar / autoharp / vocals), formerly of Drop City, Colorsound and The Brian Jonestown Massacre, along with Matt Sigley (bass / keyboards / vocals) and Chris Cobb (drums / percussion). 

The Lovetones released their debut album, Be What You Want in 2002 through Bomp! Records, creating a palpable buzz amongst critics from the likes of Creem and Rolling Stone magazine. The latter hailed mainman Matthew J Tow's songwriting worthy of Ray Davies, Bowie, Lennon and McCartney: a bold statement, yet in his case, completely justified.

After enjoying the critical success of Be What You Want, touring Australia extensively and even supporting Morrissey during his first ever solo Australian tour, Tow joined The Brian Jonestown Massacre in 2003 and contributed two brilliant tracks to their sonic mastery, ...And This Is Our Music. Tow's opening track "Starcleaner" later also appeared on the BJM retrospective Tepid Peppermint Wonderland. In the same year, UK based Fire Records invited The Lovetones to contribute to the James Joyce Chamber Music project alongside Mercury Rev, Sonic Youth and REM's Peter Buck. 2004 saw the release of the Stars EP, coinciding with The Lovetones supporting The Brian Jonestown Massacre on their infamous and now legendary tour of Australia. 

The second album Meditations was released through New York's Tee Pee Records in late 2005, revealing a stunning development in Tow's songwriting and providing a soundscape of radiant pop, ethereal psychedelia and truly remarkable vocal melodies that arched for the stars. Soulful and sincere, Meditations nodded gently and respectfully to the pop masters of the sixties whilst never lacking in original vision.

Returning from triumphant shows in the US in late 2005 and also at SXSW 2006, The Lovetones toured to support Meditations' Australian release in May 2006. June 2006 saw The Lovetones complete a crazed European tour across 12 countries with The Brian Jonestown Massacre in support of Meditations' release there through Tee Pee/Cargo Records, culminating in a rave album review in respected UK magazine Uncut.

The Lovetones also managed to record their third album Axiom during 2006 with fervent sessions split between Figment Studios in Hollywood and the Sydney Opera House Recording Studio. More extensive touring in the US and Australia followed.

Dimensions is The Lovetones' fourth studio album and the latest chapter in the indie psychedelic pop legacy of frontman Matt Tow, who remains one of Australia's most underrated songwriters. Beautiful jangling guitars in wide stereo mixed with honest heartfelt lyrics, Tow's songs have an enduring timelessness about them, remaining catchy without ever being contrived. The album was mixed in Los Angeles by Rob Campanella (Brian Jonestown Massacre/Quarter After/Black Angels) and mastered by William Bowden (one of Australia's finest mastering engineers).

It's time to move on to the next step in the psychedelic revolution!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Lovetones">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.