There are 2 artists by this name

1. The Seer is a progressive death metal band from Newcastle. Present in The Seer's music are elements from many of the various subgenres within metal, with several songs containing orchestral arrangements as well.

The band was founded in 2006 by Ryan Huthnance (Mortal Sin, Kindred, Chrome Bison) as a solo project, with the intention of creating much more aurally complex and intense than that which he had played in previous bands. Over the course of 2006 and 2007, at least 20 songs were written for the debut album “Prologue”, of which 10 were chosen for the final tracklisting.

As is evident on “Prologue”, The Seer draws from a wealth of influences, from the raw energy of thrash and death metal, to the much more refined and grandiose elements of classical music. On top of the cacophony of blast-beats and growled vocals, extremely melodic and tasteful, yet still face-melting solos are also present to complete the package.

In 2008, the album was recorded, mixed and mastered at Ryan’s home studio “Emissary Studios”, but the final product was deemed to be unsatisfactory - and thus “Prologue” was re-recorded from late 2008 into early 2009. In mid-2009, Ryan was contacted through Myspace by Ben Rommell (ex-Grim Demise), who offered his services as a second guitarist. This offer was the catalyst for The Seer’s evolution into a live act. Enlisting the services of close friends Allan Swaffield (ex-SoulTremor, Chrome Bison) on bass, and Pete Downtong (Viral Millennium, ex-Kindred) on drums, the band was now complete.

With these new members, the songs changed to suit each new member's personal style, so 5 of the tracks from the original "Prologue" CD were chosen to be re-recorded yet again for an EP of the same title - resulting in them sounding bigger and better than ever.

After several local shows, the band chose to continue without Pete, and found a replacement in Luke Cook (Mortal Sin, ex-Killrazer, ex-Vaticide), who then chose to leave the band after only a few months. Ben was then replaced by Rohan Macdonald (ex-Soultremor), and Luke was replaced by Mark Van Tongeren (The Paradox Unseen)

With the “Prologue” EP only representing The Seer in it’s embryonic stages, and with all the band members being in their early to mid-20’s, the band can only go upwards from here. With a fully functional line-up and a completed EP, The Seer have their sights set on main support slots, and eventually, the world stage.


2. 
"Heading For The Sun" hier beziehen:
Amazon: http://bit.ly/daxgdB
Musicload: http://bit.ly/9Nvpos
iTunes: http://bit.ly/cao6ds

The Seer is a German rock band whose music can be described as a catchy mix of hymnic rock and folk elements.

The band was founded in 1990 in Augsburg, Germany. Band members are Shook (voc, git), Peter Seipt (keys,  acc, bvoc), Michael Nigg (dr, perc), Jürgen Nils Möller (bg) and Jo Corda (mand, vio, git).

The Seer have gained a fair amount of popularity as a live band being constantly on stage for over 15 years. They had a minor airplay hit with the single "Please" in 1998. Although the real breakthrough never happened, The Seer still keep on touring and recording successfully.

Discography:
Across The Border (1995) / Own World (1996) / Liquid (1998) / Rise (2002) / Arrival (2005)
- all scheduled for re-release in 2007 -
Live albums:
Organic (1999) / Live (2007)
Non-official releases:
01|02 (2001; pre-release of 'Rise') / Retrospective (2003; demos, outtakes etc) / Retrospective Vol. 2 (2006)
DVD
The Seer 1990-2005 (2005) / Live (2007) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Seer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.