Just imagine Black Label Society inviting the Nickelback guy over for some Thin Lizzy covers, all dressed up in Pantera shirts.

This is "The New Black" from Würzburg, Germany

................................................


Also sharing the family name though definitely not the majority of releases or LastFM love are their cousins  Melbourne's "The New Black" who are/were an impeccably dressed (in their girlfriends clothing) alternative rock band and if they can squeeze into those jeans again may just be fighting over hairspray in a dirty bar near you soon.
Find Melbourne's The New Black on myspace, or at thenewblack.com.au (melb)

--------------------------------------
The dance rock band from Chicago is called "New Black".
Find them here on last.fm New+Black, or 
on myspace, or on newblack.net (chic).

What is it about the NEW BLACK? Why do we care what is edgy, what is shocking, what is at the front of the wrong line and the back of the right line? Just for the sake of being close enough to make your ears perk at the clamor of its declaration?

Chicago's New Black literally came out of nowhere with their self-titled debut in 2004, grabbing the attention of America's indie music bizsters, journalists and record-shelf searchers alike. But unlike many of their counterparts, who would navigate a path back and forth across the US attempting to gain a following, New Black would debut a new sound to their European neighbors first. In fact, by the end of the tour, the band would have played more countries than it had US cities.

In a year's time, just before the writing and recording of their second record, the band would be invited to open for the likes of VHS or Beta, Electrelane, Secret Machines and Coachwhips. Rough Trade would include them on its Best of 2004 Compilation alongside Elliot Smith, Sonic Youth, Bloc Party and more. The touring and accolades, as well as personal exposure to their peers would help distill an even newer black to its explosive core.

...............................



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+New+Black">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.