There are multiple artists named The Nod:

1.) A rock band formed in Madison, WI in 2008.

2.) A rock band formed in Denver in 2007.

3.) A heavy metal band formed in New Plymouth, New Zealand in 1986.

1.) The Nod is a Madison, WI rock band formed in the basements of Madison in 2008. Original member Brett Newski (lead vocals/guitar) has kept this band chugging through several roster shake-ups, and The Nod is currently a three-piece consisting of Brett, Eric Maloney (bass/vocals) and Nate Devroy (drums). Influences include The Strokes, The Pixies, Cake, Weezer, Elliott Smith, Montel Jordan, We Are Scientists, and Pavement.

The Nod released their first commercial album last year, the <i> Shoddy Heart EP </i>, on the Yes Please Records imprint of Yes Please Media. It’s six tracks are a mix of indie and alternative rock, with a twist of quirkiness that is becoming something of a hallmark for these three. It is currently available on CDBaby, iTunes, and Bandcamp, with the option of a pay-what-you-want download from Bandcamp. With a lineup firmly in place and this EP under their belt, The Nod is just getting started. Shows are slated throughout the Midwest, and the eagerly awaited full-length successor to Shoddy Heart is due for a 2010 release. Look forward to bigger and better things from The Nod in the near future!


2.) The Nod is a Denver 4-piece riff rock band who formed in 2007. Their brand of rock lives up to the name, all you wanna do is nod your head. Featuring members of ex-Half of Zero, Low Gravity, Captain Dirk, and Left Foot Green. Check these guys out and join the crowds in nodding for The Nod. They released their Twisted Romance EP available through iTunes and Fist Music.


3.)The Nod was a heavy metal band formed in New Plymouth, New Zealand in 1986. The Nod, then a trio of vocalist/guitarist Darren Broughton, bass player Phil Parli and drummer Les Robinson, debuted with an eponymous cassette in 1988. The group, promoting the self-financed 'Thirsty Work' album, supported Iron Maiden at the Logan Campbell Centre in Auckland in 1992.

The Nod folded in 1998. Drummer Pete Westbury subsequently joined Blackjack. Broughton formed spoof band Severe, switching roles to that of drummer. A decade later, The Nod regrouped and released a compilation entitled 'Hanging Ova'. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Nod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.