The Brightly Shining Sea bled her first waters in the spring of 2006. The founders were Giannis Koutsamanis (bass, violin) and Dimitris Havellas (guitar). After a while Spoonman (aka Dimitris Karantzinis) joined the waves as a vocalist. For the following two years lots of diverse experimentations and inner sentiments were messing with each other, giving shape and form to songs reflecting the things happening in our heads. The Brightly Shining Sea considers music as a great form of art. It is the only possible way to express our feelings and states of mind, the way to experiment so as to move forward to something inspiring, something of its own.

In search of ways to transform all these thoughts into music, the band has composed her first, self-titled E.P., consisting of five songs. Recordings took place between April of 2008 and January of 2009 at InTheCoreMedia’s studio, as well as the mixing & mastering procedures. Nick M. from InTheCoreMedia did the job. The process of designing the E.P. was carried out by Katerina Katsoura, logo designed by RemedyArtDesign. Currently speaking, the E.P. is available on Rhythm Records (Emmanouil Mpenaki 74, Eksarheia, Athens) and on World's Appreciated Kitsch HQ distro (www.wakhc.blogspot.com).I can also be collected by the crew members (email the crew: thebbsea@hotmail.com) The crew floats on its own, not belonging to a record label so long.

Also, the crew has since expanded.
With Nikos Soulantikas being the drummer, Klearhos Gregoriadis the bassist, and John focusing on violin, the ship is full now, and wandering.

Consequently, various live appearances have taken place from the fall of 2009 and on. In the meanwhile, our E.P. was featured as proposal of the month in the Hellenic Assault column of Greek Metal Hammer’s January 2010 issue. Also, it has been reviewed by several well-known music e-portals and sites, including Avopolis.gr, Rocking.gr, MetalZone.gr, and quite some more. The waters have peculiar shine, and we’ve made waves.

Still, we don’t know on which shores our waves crash.
There lies the beauty. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Brightly+Shining+Sea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.