There are more than one band that go by the title name 'The Crew'. Three of those bands are mentioned below.

I.) The crew is a punk band out of plaistow NH/Haverhill MA. They formed in mid to late 2004. They're line up was Brandan(bass) kendra(guitar) robbie(drums) and rocko(vocals). In 2005 Brendan and rocko exchanged roles and recorded their first full length demo. This Demo is much harder and serious than songs written with there previous lineup.

2.) THE CREW is a collection of Christian Artists who are committed to spreading the Word of God through Worship and Praise... With such a diverse repertoire to choose from, this ministry based in Southern California will send you into the presence of God no matter what your music style. Feel free to invite Teresa Escalante, Sam Celestine, Allan Celestine and the rest of THE CREW to come worship with you.... Or, you can see the event calendar and join them in a Worship and Praise service near you... 
 If you are interested in joining The Crew, contact us....

Source: eMusic - The Crew

3.) I first saw THE CREW opening a concert by Albert Collins, touring Belgium.... They didn't disappoint me, nor the public. Even Albert Collins, the Master of the Telecaster, took an interest in those five whities playing and singing the blues, wailing soul or rocking the joint. At the end of his show, Mr. Collins invited ANN DE BRUYN for a supreme moment that night; her dueting (NOT dueling!) the Master's Telecaster. Both brother Jan and sister Ann De Bruyn are an outstanding musical pair. They both possess a unique dark and soulful voice (for whities that is!). They also know how to get you into some fingersnapping or get through to your deepest emotions.

A blues, blues rock, rock band. One album 'Peace Of Mind' which I am playing and listening to right now is here 'SouthernBluesRock' on 'Blogger'. The Crew 'Peace Of Mind'

Band Members:

Ann De Bruyn (zang)
Herman Peters (basgitaar)
Jan De Bruyn (gitaar, zang)
John Van Vessum (drums)
Pieter Van Bogaert (Hammond, keyboards, piano)

Peace Of Mind Tracklist:

01 - Good Woman Go Bad 04:48
02 - Too Crowded In My Bed 04:17
03 - Step By Step 03:50
04 - Restless Heart 05:05
05 - On Your Trail 02:33
06 - Shine 06:08
07 - Watch Your Moves 04:38
08 - Sweet Man Of Mine 03:49
09 - Ragin' Like A Cajun 03:11
10 - Sittin' Next To Sue 05:06
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Crew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.