The M Machine is an electronic music trio hailing from San Francisco, CA. Formed in 2011 by Ben Swardlick AKA Swardy, Eric Luttrell, and Andy Coenen, the group has quickly risen to prominence on the strength of their wholly original and forward-thinking sound.

Transcending genre, the group effortlessly bounds between hard-hitting dance tracks and thoughtful, indie-styled vocal songs, tying it all together with a distinctly cinematic presentation. The group also designed, built, and performs its own live visuals in the form of a massive LED version of their iconic "M". It is this eclectic and all-encompassing approach towards their craft that has distinguished The M Machine as something very unique in the world of electronic music.

The group achieved initial viral success with a teaser video for their two-part album Metropolis. The group's debut EP, Metropolis Pt. I, was released in April 2012 on Skrillex's OWSLA label. Inspired by Fritz Lang's seminal 1927 film Metropolis, the group created an entire mythology for the release, each song telling part of the story of the dystopian city of Metropolis. After an extensive run of official remixes for Bruno Mars, Passion Pit, Datsik/Kill The Noise, and Madeon, The M Machine returned to original production, elevating their craft to the rave reviews of their peers (read Skrillex, Porter Robinson, and Madeon). The second installment of their album, Metropolis Pt. II, released by OWSLA in February 2013, marked a new high water point in terms of the group's creativity and production. The Metropolis saga was completed with the release of Metropolis Remixed, a revamped retrospective of the previous two EPs that featured remixes from Kill The Noise, Digitalism, Robotaki, and more. Most recently the group remixed Dog Blood and Empire Of The Sun; both remixes were released to much fanfare. 

The M Machine has performed at high-profile festivals including Electric Daisy Carnival (Las Vegas & NYC), Tomorrowland, Outside Lands, South by Southwest, Nocturnal Wonderland, Electric Forest, Electric Zoo, and Camp Bisco. Other highlights include a support slot for the entire "Language Tour" with Porter Robinson, and a support slot for Skrillex at Red Rocks in Denver. With support from many of the world's most notable DJs, including Tiesto, Skrillex, Porter Robinson, Madeon, Markus Schulz, Benny Benassi, Zane Lowe, and Pete Tong, The M Machine continue to carve themselves a distinct niche in the ever-changing landscape of electronic music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+M+Machine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.