There is more than one artist with this name including: 
1) The Invisible is a British alt-rock band. 
2) The Invisible was an American rock quartet. 
3) The Invisible is British musician Jake Bradford-Sharp based in London. 
4) The Invisible was an 80s band. 

1) The Invisible is a British alt-rock band formed in London, UK towards the end of 2006 when three friends - Dave Okumu (Jade Fox, Matthew Herbert), Tom Herbert (Jade Fox, Polar Bear) & Leo Taylor (Gramme, Zongamin, Matthew Herbert) started work on what was initially intended as Okumu's solo project. An album gradually emerged and during the process of its creation the three Londoners fused into a fully-fledged trio; The Invisible was born. In 2009 - their début album, The Invisible, received a Mercury Music Prize nomination. In 2012 the band released the critically acclaimed album Rispah. 

2) The Invisible was an American rock quartet that, during the several years of its existence (1999–2006) in Urbana-Champaign, released two EPs (High Spirits, Lo-Fi Apocalypse), two full -length albums (Here It Comes, Invisibility) and recorded a third full length (that has not been released) out of their basement studio, (The) Polehouse. The vast majority of their work was written and recorded by brothers Kris (aka Eureka Brown) and Karl Bauer and later translated into a live presentation with the aid of a constantly evolving cast of characters. 
Having shared the stage with nationally recognized Champaign-Urbana acts such as Absinthe Blind (as Groove Timber - pre The Invisible), Headlights, The Blackouts (pre The Living Blue), The Beauty Shop, Shipwreck (pre-The Dirty Feathers), and American Minor, as well as numerous established non-CU acts such as Songs: Ohia, The Ponys, Joan of Arc, Steve Burns (of Blues Clues), and others, The Invisible were minors in a scene that were well known to those familiar with it. 
Kayla Brown, who previously had led the Mud / Parasol band Feaze (and who later sang the National Anthem at Wrigley Field), contributed vocals to the Here It Comes song The Seasons. Zach Sloan, the drummer of Salt Lake City Weekly’s 2011 Band of The Year King Niko (whose front-man filled in for Panic! At The Disco’s during a 2011 X96 event), was the drummer for the original Groove Timber lineup and also played drums on three tracks from the Invisible debut. Tristan Duke, the maker of the hand-etched hologram on Jack White's Lazaretto LP, also played steam wand on (secret song) from the same Invisible album Here It Comes and co-illustrated with Kris Bauer the cover of the 2004 High Street Orchestra album When Eggs Go Rotten.  Tractor Kings mixed their first album Sunday Night with Swoon front man Joe Stover at Polehouse—which was at that time the kitchen of the house where Duke lived with Kris and Karl. The Invisible played the Pygmalion Music Festival during its inaugural year in 2005—earlier that summer Pygmalion Music Festival founder Seth Fein (ex-Absinthe Blind) was poised to be the replacement drummer for a series of concerts in promotion of the album Invisibility. Kris and Karl Bauer are also credited with Mechanical Assistance in the liner notes of the 2002 album Sands by Lanterna, who has had music used for Steven Spielberg's film Catch Me if You Can. 

3) The Invisible is British musician Jake Bradford-Sharp based in London. 

4) The Invisible was an 80s band comprising Christopher Jones (lead vocals), Paul Nesbitt (bass), David Shepherd (lead vocals and guitar), Carla Mandy (keyboards and vocals), Lester Square (lead guitar), and Philip Staines (drums and percussion). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Invisible">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.