This page references more than one artist.

1) The Guild is an award-winning online sitcom about the lives of an online guild "The Knights of Good", with each webisode 3–7 minutes long. The first episode was posted July 27, 2007. It is broadcast on The Guild's official website, on iTunes as a podcast, effinfunny.com and YouTube, and is available for download from the Xbox Live Marketplace. The show follows the life of Codex, the healer of The Knights of Good, who attempts to lead a normal life after one of her guildmates shows up on her doorstep.
The Guild is written by Felicia Day (who stars as Codex), directed by Jane Selle Morgan and Greg Benson (season 1) and Sean Becker (season 2), and produced by Jane Selle Morgan and Kim Evey. Production of 12 new episodes for season 3 began on June 13, 2009 and ended July 11, 2009.
Joss Whedon credits The Guild as one of the inspirations for Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog, which also starred Day.

 2) The Guild is a Hip Hop group With members Hailing from New York and Kansas City.Their first and only album Recollection is a classics amongst underground heads 

3) The Guild is a Swedish band consisting of a group of friends: Sylvester Schlegel (vocals, guitar), Reine Fiske (guitar), Elias Modig (bass), Sunkan Choi (keyboards, backing vocals), Jon Lindkvist (percussion) and Fredrik Björling (drums).

Members of The Guild are also known from other bands. Sylvester Schlegel plays drums in a well-known glam rock band The Ark, Reine Fiske and Fredrik Björling are part of a band named Dungen and Sunkan Choi is in a band called Empire Dogs.

Their debut album “Oh My Guild!” was released on November 22nd, 2006. 

4) The Guild was an American sunshine pop group, established in the late 1960s, featuring Rich and Jim Lang, Tomi Milano, Terry Duggen and Denny Henson. They were active as a live band for over ten years, primarily in America's Midwest, but issued just one single commercially: 'The Sun Shines For You' b/w 'You've Got The Cutest Smile' (1969).

5) The Guild are a band from Sheffield England (Joe- Guitar, Piano, Lead vocals (sometimes a violin) Jack- Bass, Vocals Esther- Keyboard, Vocals Sam- Drummer)

6) The Guild is a supergroup project inspired by the Cartoon Network series Venture Brothers. Consisting of lyricists Sean Ace, Jus Cuz, Precise, Cya, and the Chancellor, with production work provided by Sean Ace, Vision 77 and Jus Cuz, their debut project "Hate You Can Trust" is, appropriately, a "commentary on hate."

7) Deathcore band from Knoxville, TN. Heavy music about video games, comic books, movies, and more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Guild">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.