The Silence is a name of at least eight acts:

1) An Orange County, CA, USA alternative rock band, which has been creating relationships with audiences across the USA, since 2004. From their early days of goth rock to the current rock répertoire, The Silence has dedicated their effort to not only entertaining, but connecting with fans.

This connection has been made at more than 220 shows over the past two years including 3 National Tours, Bamboozle 2005, Flipside Festival 2005, the 2005 Warped Tour and countless California and Arizona shows. 

For 2006, The Silence has added lead singer Chris Poulson to the lineup, joining Ryan McKee (guitar), Stephen Hernandez (guitar), Michael Reynoso (bass) and Jakob Medina (drums). In February of 2007, The Silence announced Michael had decided to part ways with the band, Sean Stamps taking the spot of bassist. The new lineup looks to continue the past successes of The Silence, which has included awards such as Best Rock Band at the Inland Empire Music Awards, General Motors Axis In The Garage champions and Best Pop Punk Band at the 2006 Southern California Music Awards. 

Their latest EP, The Evolution, demonstrates each members desire and ability to play edgy music that hearkens back to the glory days of rock and roll. Their signature track 'Falling Faster', was nominated for Best Rock Song at the Inland Empire Music Awards, which shows off a hook reminiscent of the rock icons; Aerosmith and Van Halen. Other tracks, such as Break My Heart, highlight the bands arena rock influences. 

The Silence live show is filled with guitar/bass spins, non-stop energy and vocal harmonies that appeal to music lovers of all ages. Music and lyrics resonate with fans, which is a priority for The Silence members.

In an earlier 2002 incarnation, the band was led by Steven Juliano and released "Audio Alchemy" (2004, whiskey records).

Check out The Silence on these sites: (MySpace) at myspace.com/thesilencemusic, (TagWorld) at tagworld.com/thesilence, and on (Pure Volume) at purevolume.com/thesilence.

2) A Leatherhead, UK proto-punk band, active between 1965-67 (formerly known as The Few and, earlier, Clockwork Onions), with core members Andy Ellison (vocals), Chris Townson (drums), Geoff McClelland (guitar) and John Hewlett (bass). Their recordings included: "Down Down", "Cold On Me" and "Forgive Me If I'm Wrong".

The band was later renamed as John's Children (with Mark Bolan).

Sites: Discogs

3) A Belgium collaboration of Christian Jay Bolland (aka CJ Bolland) and Stephan van Laethem. Their releases included: "Virtual Synthesis EP" (1997), "Psychick Is Dead" (1998), "Music Control" (2000) and the "Acid Attack" track (2003).

Sites: Discogs

4) A Slovenian theatrical ambient / synth-pop / electronic duet. Boris Benko and Primoz Hladnik are the two sole members of the group; Benko on vocals and lyric arrangements and Hladnik on all keyboards and programming arrangements. They have created music much akin to Assemblage 23's darker, calmer side with a slight touch of bleak sarcasm. They have since released their latest anthology, Key Silence, which is a rarity/best of collection of this group so far. 

More can be read at the following links.

http://www.silence-zone.com/news.htm
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silence_%28band%29
http://www.chaindlk.com/interviews/index.php?interview=Silence

5) A Rockhampton, Australia original alternative rock band, formed in 2003. The band has built a solid reputation to an ever-increasing fan base playing at many of the various festivals and venues in Central Queensland. One of the highlights for The Silence was to support ‘The Butterfly Effect’ at Rockfest 05 during Youth Week.

In May 2004 the bands talents were recognised with a Regional Arts Development Fund grant which was used to record their first EP ‘The Silence’ in Brisbane at Zero-Interference with Bryce Moorhead.

December 2005, The Silence entered four songs from their EP into the Music Oz awards. Achieving great success, by not only winning second place with ‘The Jars’ at this national competition, they also were successful with all four songs making the top 40 in the alternative category.

Last year, The Silence put their efforts and creative ideas into writing new songs and improving on their overall sound. As for the music, The Silence delivers a high energy performance, producing an over all sound that makes you want to listen to it all over again.

The Silence are pumped up and ready to get the show on the road for 2007 so be sure to catch them at one of their upcoming gigs.

6) A Philadelphia, PA., USA 3 piece alt-rock band. Founded over 15 years ago they have opened up for such diverse acts as Live, G. Love, Spacehog, Collective Soul, The Samples, The Ocean Blue and The Connells. They have just released their seventh independently produced cd, entitled "Live from the Tin Angel". Their live performances, both energetic and musically intense, demonstrate how three musicians can sound like more than the sum of their parts. Members Evan McIntyre (guitarist and vocalist) and Tim Malcarney (percussionist and vocalist) have seen the band through several line changes while creating a sound that is uniquely theirs.

http://www.myspace.com/silencethe

7) A band which was a prototype for Mott The Hoople, which was active in the mid 1960s, and later reformed for a reunion in 1989 and 1990, finally releasing an album in the mid-1990s. Such band members included Overend Watts, Dale Griffin, Robert Fisher, Paul Jeffery and Patrick Brooke.

8) A pseudonym of film director, music producer / writer, bass player and Second Person member, Mark Maclaine.

Sites: Wikipedia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.