There may be more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) The Magic Lantern is experimental folk musician Jamie Doe (born 1985 in Canberra, Australia). 
2) The Magic Lantern is a Swedish psychedelic band from Umeå, Sweden. 

1) The Magic Lantern is experimental folk musician Jamie Doe (born 1985 in Canberra, Australia). Currently based in London, UK, he writes songs that sound deceptively spare and starkly beautiful, but which open up to reveal a warmth, humour and wisdom that belies his age.
Doe started writing songs and performing under the name The Magic Lantern while studying philosophy in Bristol from 2003-2006. Moving to London in 2006, he formed a quintet of musical friends coming from diverse musical backgrounds. During this time, The Magic Lantern evolved a unique, transporting sound inspired by the immediacy of Jamie’s songs and a shared love of both improvised music. The Magic Lantern’s debut album ‘A World In A Grain Of Sand’ was self-released in June 2011 on Hectic Eclectic Records, the label Doe set up and received much critical acclaimed from Late Junction’s Verity Sharp, Bob Harris and Tom Robinson (BBC Radio 2, 3 and 6 respectively) among others.
2012 was a year of change that saw The Magic Lantern return to its roots of Doe writing and performing solo, keen to focus on emotional intensity and directness. 2013 saw The Magic Lantern commissioned to write scores for a number of plays and films in addition to playing up down the country, almost always by bus. The second album ‘Love of Too Much Living’ was released in 2014.
http://the-magic-lantern.co.uk

2) The Magic Lantern is a Swedish band from Umeå, Sweden. The band plays psychedelic music, influenced by postrock and 70's kraut and spacerock. Most of the tracks are created live in the rehearsal room, with the tape rollin'. Then the best parts are reworked and some additions are made.
http://www.myspace.com/themagiclanternsweden <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Magic+Lantern">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.