The Arcane Order is the brainchild of guitarist Flemming C. Lund (Invocator, ex-Autumn Leaves). The history of The Arcane Order began as Scavenger in 2000 when Flemming C. Lund's previous band Autumn Leaves was moving closer to a permanent break-up. After Autumn Leaves split up in the summer of 2000, Flemming joined Invocator and at the same time started writing songs for The Arcane Order. However due to lack of time and the failing interest in music at that point in time, nothing much happened with the band during the first couple of years. 

In 2003 however, Flemming regained his interest in music, started writing a lot of new material and started to find fellow musicians. Other members found were Boris Tandrup on bass, formerly of Autumn Leaves – a gifted bassplayer. A 20-year-old local drummer was found in the form of Morten Løwe Sørensen. And to complete the line up a well-known Swedish singer, and personal favorite of Flemming's, was contacted and immediately agreed to do the vocals. 

In June 2004, the band entered Jacob Hansen Studios and recorded the instruments for the promo hoping to finish the vocal parts in Sweden shortly thereafter. However due to a series of unforeseen complications over a longer period of time it was eventually realized, that the cooperation unfortunately had to end. Kasper Thomsen (Raunchy) who Flemming had known for years, was contacted and in May 2005 the vocals were recorded and the promo finally finished. 

A variety of labels showed great interest in the band’s promo and finally the band signed with Metal Blade Records in September 2005 - after which the band changed name from Scavenger to The Arcane Order. The Arcane Order entered Hansen Studios with acclaimed producer Jacob Hansen in April 2006 to record their upcoming debut album "The Machinery of Oblivion", which was released on August 14th 2006 through Metal Blade Records. 
The band got outstanding reviews and was enthusiastically received both among the press and fans. In November 2006, the album was nominated as best debut album at the Danish Metal Awards.

In April 2007, guitarist Kasper Kirkegaard was added to the line-up as a permanent member on rhythm guitar after having helped out during live shows.
While playing successful shows with among others Testament, Hatesphere and Suffocation the band worked hard on the follow-up to the critically acclaimed debut album "The Machinery of Oblivion", and the sophomore album “In The Wake Of Collisions”, a concept album based on the theme collisions, was recorded in September 2007 again with producer Jacob Hansen at Hansen Studios, Ribe, Denmark. “In The Wake Of Collisions” hit the streets in January 2008 through Metal Blade Records.

Today The Arcane Order is a band which stands out as a hard-hitting unit that has been refined from memberships and collaborations with a whole host of class acts including Raunchy, Invocator, Nightrage, Scarve, Hatesphere, Koldborn, Amaranthe, Mercenary, Submission and Autumn Leaves. 

At the current moment, Summer 2010, a new album is in the making. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Arcane+Order">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.