The Blinding Light are a uniquely creative metal/hardcore hybrid fronted by awe-inspiring vocalist, Brian Lovro (ex-Threadbare). Sonically infectious as they are violently intense, The Blinding Light burn brighter than their contemporaries, rushing forth with a breakneck force rarely found within the metallic hardcore community.

The Blinding Light began when Brian Lovro moved back to the wastelands of South Dakota sometime after the demise of Threadbare. Uninspired by most aggressive music of the day, he chose to lay dormant from music. After a short creative slumber, he was approached by members of the area metal outfit, Caligari, to contribute his talents to a new project. After a few rehearsals, the direction of this monster took shape, and The Blinding Light was born.

In 2002, the band paired up with Deathwish to release their "Glass Bullet" CD and Init Records to forge the vinyl. The release was well-received by fans and press alike as a rare jewel of the Midwest metallic hardcore scene.

After playing area shows in support of their debut, The Blinding Light took refuge in their home studio to write and record their first proper album "The Ascension Attempt". Released in 2004, "The Ascension Attempt" hovered as an independent and triumphant crossover of metal and hardcore. Fusing a thrash metal viciousness (think Slayer, Ripping Corpse, Dark Angel, etc) with an unrelenting hardcore ferocity.

In mid-2004, the band took to the road playing midwest leg of the Converge "You Fail Me" tour.

The band is currently working on their follow up to "The Ascension Attempt". 

Members of The Blinding Light have performed in such noteworthy acts as: Nodes Of Ranvier, Threadbare, Smoke And Mirrors, Caligari, Rapid Fusion, Floodplain, Face of Decline, Suffer, Oversoul, Rusalka, Fall and more.

http://www.myspace.com/theblindinglightSD <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Blinding+Light">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.