(for 'Weather Girls', the Taiwanese girl group promoted in Japan use ウェザーガールズ)

The Weather Girls is an  American girl group whose founding members were Martha Wash and Izora Armstead(Izora Rhodes Armstead). Izora's two daughters Dynell Rhodes and Ingrid Arthur have continued the duo. 

They are best known for their 1982 hit "It's Raining Men". Although the group is considered a one hit wonder by the mainstream, they were previously known as Two Tons O' Fun, under which name they recorded the number 2 American Billboard Disco chart hit "Earth Can Be Just Like Heaven" (1980), the number 29 American R&B chart hit "Just Us" (1980) and their Hi-NRG hit song "I Got The Feeling" (1981). They also backed Sylvester.

In addition, Wash recorded various other hit singles under her own name and as a (sometimes uncredited) vocalist for such artists as Black Box and C+C Music Factory.
The Weather Girls continued, after the split with Wash in the mid-80s, with original member Izora and her daughter Dynell Rhodes. Following Izora's death in 2004, Dynell continues to record under the Weather Girls moniker with her sister Ingrid Arthur. 

For more than 25 years and with varying line-ups over the years, the spirited ladies have performed on stage and entertained their fans with their powerful voices, good spirit and positive vibes. On their latest release, The Woman I Am (CdA Recordings), the girls send a message of hope and positivity emphasizing a look to the future feeling positive about yourself and your environment. Past hits such as "It’s Raining Men“ and "Can U Feel It" will surely be joined by new classics such as "Wild Thing", "Love Will Lift You Up", "Human Love", “The Woman I Am” and the fun remake of “Just Us”.  The release is a mix of dance, soul, gospel and some jamming re-mixes. Visit their www.myspace.com/theweathergirls, their official page. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Weather+Girls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.