The Antlers are an indie rock band currently based in Brooklyn, New York, fronted by Peter Silberman. Initially, The Antlers was a solo project created by vocalist and guitarist Silberman immediately after he had moved to Brooklyn, New York, in 2007. Silberman wrote the first two albums, "Uprooted" and "In the Attic of the Universe" by himself and under his own name. Afterwards, he recruited Lerner and Cicci, becoming a collaborative group. The band recorded two EPs: "Cold War" and "New York Hospitals". Silberman's collection of songs (which was mentioned as an "elegy for his planned disappearance") would later become a full-length album titled "Hospice" and would feature an epic storyline, telling the story of an abusive relationship through an allegory of a hospice worker losing a patient—for whom he developed feelings for—to bone cancer. Silberman has stated that the album is mostly auto-biographical. The album was independently released by the band in March of 2009, selling an apparently overwhelming number of copies, later selling all of their stock and had to produce more. The band later commented that they had "bit off more than they could chew". The album received critical praise for both its narrative and musicianship and has since been listed on several "Album of the Year" lists. The band later signed with New York-based French Kiss Records. The label released a remastered "Hospice" on August 18, 2009. In 2011, they released "Burst Apart," their follow-up to "Hospice." The album was received with critical acclaim equal to its predecessor, and the band subsequently launched a world tour in support of the record.
They released the (together) EP shortly after Burst Apart which contained 8 remixes and covers with several collaberating artists.
In 2012 the Undersea EP was released containing 4 new songs. 
On March 31th 2014 the band announced the 5th studio album called "Familiars". It was released on June 17th 2014 receiving critical acclaim worldwide.


Peter Silberman - vocals, guitar
Michael Lerner - drums, percussion
Darby Cicci - keyboards, trumpet, bowed banjo

Additional members
Justin Stivers – bass guitar on Hospice
Timothy Mislock - bass guitar, guitar (touring)

Discography:

Uprooted (2006)
In the Attic of the Universe (2007)
Cold War (EP) (2008)
New York Hospitals (EP) (2008)
Hospice (2009)
Burst Apart (2011)
(together) (EP) (2011)
Undersea (EP) (2012)
Familiars (2014) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Antlers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.