The Automatics are best known for their Punk/Powerpop standard 'When the tanks roll over Poland again', (released on Island Records in 1978) which became one of the first Number Ones in the newly introduced Punk/New Wave charts . 

An album entitled 'Walking with the radio on' was recorded at the same time under the guidance of upcoming producer Steve Lillywhite, but shelved by Island Records as they focused their attention and producer on an upcoming outfit calling themselves 'U2'. The band disbanded shortly after. Drummer Ricky 'Rocket' Goldstein left to join Sham 69 and played on Sham`s later hits. 

Guitarist Wally Hacon went off to work with Wreckless Eric, for whom he wrote the single 'Broken Doll' (later covered by Sir Cliff Richard), whilst Bobby Collins had a spell as bass player in Holly and The Italians. 

The 'Walking with the radio on' album was eventually given a release in Japan in 2000 by Base Records, and a UK release in 2003 by Angel Air Records. 

With renewed vigour, lead vocalist and songwriter Dave Philp re-assembled The Automatics in 2000 and recorded the Automatics "2" album with top L.A. producer Jim Wirt. "2" was released in Japan by Base Records in 2001 and promoted by a series of Japanese dates. Another album of "Rarities" from their early days was issued by Base Records the same year. 

In 2002, Swedish label Diapazam Records coupled together 2 early tracks and released the 7" vinyl single "Wild One"/ "Like a moth into a flame". 

2003 saw the band release the brand new 'Forty Virgins In The Afterlife' album. The album was released on Base Records in Japan and also had a release in Germany on Trash 2001 Records. It had the added bonus of a guest appearance from the Sex Pistols` Steve Jones, who played guitar on the tracks 'Trash' and 'Peace on Earth', and was supported by a Japanese tour in 2004.

Dave Philp has been vigorously writing and recording over the last few years and has just released the brand new Automatics album 'Britannia' in July 2006 on UK label Dork Records. Guests on the 'Britannia' album include Steve Jones (Sex Pistols), Ian McCallum (Stiff Little Fingers), Mick Rossi (Slaughter & the dogs), Michael Des Barres (Silverhead, Detective, Power station), Jim Wirt and others.

The Automatics released "Old River Thames" as a single on Dork Records in December 2006, a track taken from the "Britannia" album. At the time of writing the single stands at #3 in the Big L Radio (Radio London) Fab 40, having been championed by former BBC and current Big L Radio presenter Mike Read.

Another punk band named The Automatics was active in the 1990s in Portland, Oregon. They produced many records on Mutant Pop Records and four full-length albums (including Murder/Suicide and Automatics) on a variety of labels. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Automatics">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.