“This is technical, precision thrash with a classic feel but a modern production sheen and even a touch of progressive musicianship in among the sheet-metal riffage and barking aggression. KKKK” – Paul Travers, reviewing ‘Unholy Feast’ in Kerrang! May 3rd 2008.  

British Thrash Metal masters The More I See release their second, full-on monster of an album, ‘The Unholy Feast’, on Transcend Records, distributed by Cargo, on June 16th. ‘The Unholy Feast’ contains twelve tracks bursting with massive aggression and power that never comes at the expense of huge hooks and instantly addictive choruses, is packed with classic, crunching thrash riffs loaded with melody, hooks, drive and passion, and every song matters; there are no fillers. 

The More I See were formed by guitarist Gizz Butt, who, inspired by a great number of years spent peddling his musical wares in cult Punk band English Dogs and then the Prodigy to people all over the planet, took care to recruit like minded missionaries  who shared the same passion, technical ability and desire to tear the roof off every venue that was brave enough to book them.

Gizz came away from the Prodigy with the same sense of inclusivity that Prodigy main man Liam Howlett encouraged: “I think opening up is important and treating everyone like they’re on a level so you are bringing people in, involving people in the song writing. It is crucial to have the feeling that everyone feels like it is their band. Their voices are heard and their riffs are included. We don’t slam the door in people’s faces.”

Prior to his time in The Prodigy, Gizz cut his teeth as teenage guitarist in cult 80’s band The English Dogs, who combined punk and metal in a belligerent collision and counted a young upstart band named Metallica among their fans. Gizz has gone back to this explosive mix of punk and aggression, thrash speed and technical metal ability for The More I See and ‘The Unholy Feast’ is ripe with it.

The More I See were formed in Cambridgeshire in 2002, when Gizz recruited vocalist Chad Sunderland, guitarist Gavin King and bassist Lee Churchill. Their debut album, ‘The Wolves Are Hungry’, was proclaimed a “Stunning Debut From The UK’s New Metal Gods” by Dom Lawson in Kerrang! on September 25th 2004, continuing “The More I See are a revelation. The key to this albums’ greatness is in the songwriting. An extraordinary statement of intent. KKKK”. Even though ‘The Wolves Are Hungry’ received rave reviews, sales were disappointing, major European tour plans never came to fruition, and the band’s relationships with their German record label, manager and agent all fell apart.

Gizz decided to go back to his roots and speed the musical pace up, both live and on record, so he recruited drummer Spike T. Smith, previously of early UK thrash pioneers Sacrilege, and Punk legends The Damned, to the line-up. With the chemistry right at last, it was time to demo the dark songs which had been in gestation for the last few years. The More I See soon inked a new deal with maverick label Transcend Records, who subsequently guided them towards the recording of ‘The Unholy Feast’, an astonishingly accomplished album will ride the crest of the wave of the current Thrash Metal revival all the way to the top.


 Homepage: http://www.themoreisee.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+More+I+See">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.