The Exploding Hearts were a punk rock / power pop band which formed in Portland, Oregon, United States in 2001. The band comprised Adam Cox (vocals, guitar), Terry Six (guitar), Matt Fitzgerald (bass) and Jeremy Gage (drums). Despite critical acclaim for their album "Guitar Romantic" and their single "Modern Kicks", the band is probably best known for the tragic van accident in July 2003 which killed Cox, Fitzgerald and Gage, after which the band ceased to exist.

During the early 2000s the band rose to prominence in the US Pacific Northwest punk / new wave scene with a combination of energetic live shows and extremely well received singles. The band drew their influence from early British punk bands like The Undertones, The Jam, The Boys and The Buzzcocks, as well as pop acts like Nick Lowe. The Exploding Hearts lead a revival of 70s power pop and new wave in the Seattle / Portland area along with bands like The Briefs and The Epoxies on the then-Seattle based Dirtnap Records.

On July 20th, 2003 the band was in an automotive accident which claimed the lives of three members. Their touring van flipped over on Interstate 5 just north of Eugene, Oregon while en route from San Francisco to Portland. Jeremy Gage (age 21) and Adam Cox (age 23) were thrown from the vehicle and pronounced dead at the scene. The driver, Matthew Fitzgerald (age 20), died at a hospital. Terry Six and band manager Rachelle Ramos both survived with minor injuries.

No attempts were made to carry on the band name after the accident, yet the band's music continued to gain popularity as word of mouth spread on the internet. Sole surviving member Terry Six went on to form The Nice Boys who are quite unlike the punk vibe of his former band and take on more of a 70s glam sensibility. In his current band, Six is the lead singer as well as the lead guitar player. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Exploding+Hearts">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.