Don't worry about the future of America; as long as honest, hardworking blue collar musicians still exist in this country, the rest of us will have a voice and something fun to do on the weekends. Hailing from Buffalo, NY are The Exit Strategy: they are four bona fide, self-taught, talented, keen fellows who play remarkably great music and put on a show that the fans in Buffalo call "extraordinary."
City of Microphones thankfully doesn't lose this extra-ordinary energy from The Exit Strategy's live show in its production. The guitar parts are the perfect ever-moving compliment to the steady, strong vocals, and it’s all backed by a super-tight rhythm section. Maybe you could call the music post-punk, if you really wanted to.... There are definitely elements of the Minutemen, Fugazi, Hot Snakes, and more, but yes The Exit Strategy do excite your ears with completely original songs.
This is not The Exit Strategy's first rodeo. These guys have all played in bands together since the eighth grade, due mostly to Buffalo’s close-knit scene. Thank you, Buffalo! Highlights from the guys’ past include stints in Copper, The Kite Eating Tree, Gathering Ground, Sonic Boom Project, and The Failures' Union. All of this experience has brought each member to a new level of skill, and it shows. Of course, the guys also love to have fun. At an Exit Strategy show, you never know if you’ll experience extreme audience participation: people dancing in costumes or even joining the band on stage for some percussive madness.
On The Exit Strategy's newest album, the musical abilities and intuition demonstrated on songs like "X-Rays" and "What the Fuck Is Low Art" far outweigh the pool of crap that exists in much of the "let’s-start-a-band-to-get-laid" music today. Also on City of Microphones, you’ll hear singer Mark Costantino tackling personal demons and political injustices, sung from his own point of view, one of a City of Buffalo police officer. One more time just in case: the lead singer of this passionate, broad-minded rock band is a copper. The unique perspective of someone witnessing corruption from the inside makes the lyrics even more interesting. J Robbins engineered, produced, and played tambourine on the album. Oh, and there are hand claps on "All Circuits Are Dead"- how can you go wrong?! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Exit+Strategy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.