There are four artists with this name:


1)  A London, UK post-punk band formed in 1978 by Rico Conning, Jo Forty, Nick Cash and Mick Linehan. Their song "White Night" was covered by Brix Smith's Adult Net. They released the Ultramarine album in 1983 (notable for its last track being the first track played backwards)
Between 1978 and 1983, The Lines released 5 singles, 1 EP and 2 LPs to mixed reviews and little sales. One reviewer at the time noted that "The stumbling block for instant accolades seems to be the puzzling paradox that these are lasting pieces of work which require several listens before they finally take root in your soul." Sure enough, anybody who's spent enough time with these records has developed a cult-like devotion to The Lines. Over the years, these few records have become rare and expensive collector's items.  Their music possesses an angular and melodic thoughtfulness and precision that brings to mind Wire, Joy Division, the Feelies or Mission of Burma.
Although they played shows with bands like The Cure, Bauhaus, The Sound and Birthday Party, and featured members of prag Vec and Alternative TV, they were never part of any scene. They never toured and rarely spoke to the press. For 5 years they rehearsed, performed and recorded to little acclaim, leaving only 8 releases on vinyl. While unappreciated in their time, they perfectly encapsulate the best qualities of the era: angst-ridden angularity, danceable catchiness, sublime dub-influenced atmospherics, sonic experimentation and killer hooks, with an unrivalled consistency.


2) The Lines are a four-piece anthemic indie rock band consisting of Dean Bate (Lead Guitar), Dave “Paddy” O'Connor (Drums and Samples), Alex Ohm (Vocals and Guitar) and Danny Pease (Bass Guitar).
Commanding a huge loyal fan base in their hometown of Wolverhampton, The Lines Army have travelled as far afield as New York, Moscow and Austria in recent outings.
Various support slots have included The Killers, Editors, The Maccabees, The Charlatans, Babyshambles, Jack Peñate, Athlete, Supergrass, Spiritualized, Ash and Ian Brown.
A legendary fan comes in the form of Robert Plant, who said that ‘There aren't really many good bands coming out of Wolverhampton, just one great band called The Lines’.
The Lines have staged concerts of their own, including sell-out shows at local Wolverhampton venues Little Civic, Slade Rooms and the 1,300 capacity Wulfrun Hall. 
October 2010 saw the release of their debut album on Amboy Road Records in the UK and their first dates in the US. 
That following looks set to grow and grow with X-Ray Touring handling booking for the world apart from North America, where High Road Touring are in charge.


The Lines MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/wearethelines


3)  The Lines from Stoke-on-Trent have supported several signed acts including Dogs and Boy Kill Boy. The group have independently released three EPs:

Snow In August (2004)
White Lane (2005)
Fences 3 Track (2005))


4)  The Lines from Sydney, Australia who after forming two years ago have played at large festivals in Oz and gigged extensively....the group are in the process of recording their eagerly awaited debut EP from which one track "Growing Pains" is set to be included in a major motion movie release later in 2007.

The Lines MySpace: http://www.myspace.com/thelinesband
The Lines Official Site: http://www.the-lines.com



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Lines">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.