In a basement on Commonwealth Terrace in Allston, MA, during the cold, dark winter of 1994-95, guitarists Justin Sosnovski, Graham Hick and B. Clifford Meyer joined together to create something both beautiful and disgusting. They decided that a bass just wasn't needed when they had 3 guitars, and besides, no one wanted to play it. Instead they utilized a dropped D tuning that ensured a sound both heavy and sad. This bleakness attracted the drumming of Jonathan Ruhe. The name was taken from a roommate's stepdad who was a total asshole named Gerschon. The music was inspired the poetic dialogue of "Conan The Barbarian" and the dissected human anatomy drawings of Andreas Vesalius (1514-1564). Thus, The Gersch was born.

Debuting at O'Briens in Allston in 1995, The Gersch cleared the room with the first song of their set - the 15 minute, funeral dirge "Cheapskin", which, unfortunately, was never recorded, but, fortunately, changed the lives of the 3 or 4 people who sat through it.

The Gersch then spent the next few years recording and performing around Boston and building up the following and admiration of many, many, many people.

"Three Guitar Metal Monstrosity!", "A Semi Truck Drag Race!" and "I Love It When They Play Really, Really Slow, Then Really, Really Fast And Then Really, Really Slow Again!", are just some of the press quotes of the time.

1997 saw a 33 1/3 RPM 7 inch of two songs by The Gersch. "Bloodbottom" b/w "Listwish" was release number 001 for Tortuga Recordings and consequentially began that label's path to fortune and glory. The record also helped realize Mark Thompson's lifelong dream of never having to work a real job ever again. All of Tortuga Recording's subsequent releases and financial accomplishments flowed from that first 7 inch by The Gersch.

You're welcome Tortuga Recordings. We're still waiting for our cut.

1998 and 1999 saw The Gersch on a Polterchrist Records compilation, "Benefit For El Chupacabra", as well as a Tortuga Recordings compilation, "Metal Is A Tough Business" (awww, poor little Tortuga, maybe they should just put out boy bands?). These years also saw Justin leave for New York via Japan and Austin, and Graham returning to Chicago via Interstate 90. Clifford and Jonathan performed into 1999 as a two piece, but ultimately Clifford joined forces with ISIS (pronounced "izz-izz") where he resides today and Jonathan joined the much younger and more attractive Ho-Ag (which apparantly equals "Go At").

At one of their final shows as a full band, The Gersch played the Linwood where their awesome power rendered the house sound system dead and obsolete. Smoke was smelled, flames were seen.

Sorry Linwood. You can send Mark Thompson, c/o Tortuga Recordings, the bill.

On June 6th, this year of our lord, 2006, the world finally witnessed the release of The Gersch's full legnth, "The Gersch" on Tortuga Recordings. It's release number whothefuckknows for Tortuga Recordings. Torutuga will once again consider themselves lucky to release music by The Gersch, while once again getting out of paying them for it. It's a vicious cycle and The Gersch are nothing if not masochists. The songs on the CD are culled from all of the recordings The Gersch made over the years, except some are remixed and all have been remastered. Most have never been released. None will fail to surprise and delight. All will blow your fucking mind.

As you enjoy "The Gersch" by The Gersch, take with you the most important lesson they had to share - It's not the length, it's The Gersch.





(TAKEN FROM "THE GERSCH" OFFICIAL MYSPACE) [link: http://www.myspace.com/thegersch] <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Gersch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.