There are 4 artists with this name.

1. The System are a little-known UK group masterminded by Bob Lamb, a cult figure in Birmingham's music history (he played as a drummer throughout the late sixties and into the late seventies for a number of progressive rock bands and helped produce UB40 and Duran Duran's earlier works). The short lived group released only one album ‘Logic' and a single in 1983 on the obscure electronic French label ‘Romantic Records’. This distinctively forward thinking new wave/synth pop album was met with poor reception and eventually dwindled into obscurity. Nonetheless the album's revolutionary exploration in sound and outstanding production value in addition to the band’s gift of writing deeply emotive, yearning pop tunes, make it sound though perhaps more relevant today than many other far more successful albums of it's time. The System EP was reissued on Music From Memory in 2016.

2.  The System are electrosoul/R&B duo David Frank and Mic Murphy.
The duo recorded their biggest hit "Don't Disturb This Groove" in 1987 and later that decade featured another notable track entitled "Coming To America" as featured in the movie of the same name. "You Are In My System" was another hit from the band. and they also worked as producers for acts like Chaka Khan ('I Feel For You'), Phil Collins ('Sussudio') and Mtume ('Juicy Fruit'). In 2013, they released a new album, "System Overload". 



3. The System are an anarcho-punk band formed in the summer of 1980 having messed around in various other bands since 1978. In 1981 they met a band called Flux Of Pink Indians, who helped them make their fist single - The Warfare EP. This was very successful and contained their anthem - The Dogs Of War. By Mid 1981 they were touring with Flux Of Pink Indians and the legendary Crass. They followed up with their second single - The System Is Murder. By This Time they were being recognized all over the UK, Europe and the USA. 




4. In 1994 Anders Remmer (aka Dub Tractor), Thomas Knak (aka Opiate) og Jesper Skaaning (aka Acustic) met around the compilation series 'Boredom Is Deep And Mysterious', which they were compiling for April Records. After having used the name D.A.W.N. for a while, they changed their name to Future 3. 
With their cool minimalism and their intelligent mix of dub and ambient, Future 3 made quite an impact on the electronic scene at that time. 
After Kruder & Dorfmeister listed Future 3´s debut album 'We Are the Future 3' as one of their top 5 albums of all time, the trio were catapulted into the collective conciousness of lovers of electronic music. Since the early Future 3-days, the trio has found pleasure in experimenting with different electronic genres of the day, from the melodic dub-ambient on the debut 'We are the Future 3' to the understated escapades into drum´n´bass on their breakthrough hit: 'The Boy From West Bronx' from 1998´s 'Stay With'. 
Where 'Like...' from 2001 was close to being pop-electronica (with vocals by Jonas Bjerre of Mew among others), the 'System' album from 2002 (released on Scape) saw the trio break away from the melodicism that had characterized their work since the beginning. The sound on the album was so strikingly different that the group felt a new name, System, was necessary. 
Due to each groupmembers solo-output and label involvement, new group-material from Denmarks 3 electronic pioneers has become a quite rare experience. Many of Anders Remmer´s Dub Tractor releases on City Center Offices as well as Thomas Knak´s Opiate releases on April, Morr Music and Raster Noton (with Alva Noto as Opto) has long been acclaimed as milestones in modern electronic music. Thomas Knak has also been busy with his Hobby Industries label, producing for Björk on the Vespertine album as well as remixing for Efterklang, Sketch Show and Ryuichi Sakamoto. And then there is Jesper Skaanings´s Acustic project, which was featured on Rump in 2005 with the 'Welcome' album. 
In a way Systems 'Tempo EP' continues the sound of the System album on Scape, only this time presented in a slightly faster tempo, hence the title. It´s no secret that the group have been listening to two-step and dub-step, but instead of being a rip off of the genre, System incorporates the UK-styles into their own sound universe, creating something that sounds much more like System than like Skream.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+System">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.