Greetings to you my Sisters and Brothers, and a heartfelt welcome one and all to the homepage of this The Clan Destined website. For those of you who are still unaware, The Clan Destined is a creative venture extremely different from anything which has ever been witnessed before. We are an international collective of talented and like-minded Pagan individuals from all around the world who have gathered together both to make our art and make a difference!

What initially began as a purely musical collaboration has gradually evolved over the last 12 months into something far bigger than we could ever have expected. There is currently a highly dedicated team of people working behind-the-scenes to ensure that this enormous project will eventually blossom into something truly unique. Musicians, artists, writers, film-makers, web-designers, merchandisers, both spiritual & financial advisors, plus technicians & crew-members of every type will each strive collectively to transform The Clan Destined into something that we can all be extremely proud of. Each playing their vital role in the organisation and running of our Destined Clan.

As you watch the TCD master-plan unfold over the coming years, you'll begin to appreciate that this is not a task that can be accomplished by any single person, and neither can it happen overnight. It will literally require a small army of free-thinkers to get all of this together and shape it into a reality. After several long years of painstaking preparations, the initial phases of our TCD operations are finally about to commence. It is the primary purpose of this website to keep you informed of the very latest news, and to let you all know how you can each become directly involved in assisting our most noble Pagan crusade.

If you have a talent or good ideas that you wish to contribute to TCD, then please do not hesitate to get in contact. We are constantly searching for kindred-spirits who have something positive to add to what we're doing. We are a collective totally opposed to any form of bigotry, racism or narrow-mindedness. Following numerous unhappy experiences in the past, we have resolved in the future to only work with those who display creativity, dedication, compassion and an open-minded attitude towards all aspects of life. Whether you choose to give your support by offering your talents or services, purchasing a TCD t-shirt or c.d. from our online shop, or merely spreading the word about The Clan Destined to your family & circle of friends; then you may rest assured that you're helping something very special indeed to reach fruition. It is only by working together as a team that we can ensure TCD attains its full potential. I am because we are! 
Martin Walkyier
WWW.THECLANDESTINED.COM  WWW.MYSPACE.COM/MARTINWALKYIER <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Clan+Destined">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.