The Donkeys are an American indie band from San Diego, California, United States, that consist of Timothy DeNardo, Jessie Gulati, Anthony Lukens, and Sam Sprague. Their style of music has been compared to previous California bands Pavement, Grateful Dead, and Crosby, Stills, Nash, & Young. They are currently signed to the label Dead Oceans. They were nominated for best rock band for the San Diego Music Awards in 2011 and 2012, and won the award in 2012. Their song "Excelsior Lady" was featured as a song by the fictional band Geronimo Jackson on the TV show Lost. The Donkeys third album Born with Stripes was mixed by Thom Monahan of the Pernice Brothers and released in April 2011. In 2016, the band released a mini album called Midnight Palms and did a cover of the theme to the movie Endless Summer. 

There area other artists ith the same name:
2.The Donkeys were a 70s British mod revival group that appeared on the scene at the same time as The Jam while having a sound and singer that seem eerily similar. Just check out their 1977 album 'Monkey Business' and see for yourself.  The band was: Dave Owen - bass, Neil Ferguson - vocals / guitar, Mark Wellham - drums, and Tony Ferguson - rhythm guitar / vocals. Their records were a mixture of 60s pop rock harmonies with New Wave sounds and a punk-inspired ethos. Being a smash among power pop fans but finding mainstream popularity eluding their grasp, the band made five singles: "What I Want" / "Four Letters" (on Rhesus and Deram Records, 1979), "No Way" / "You Jane" (on Back Door and Vertigo Records, 1980), "Don't Go" / "Living Legends" (on MCA Records, 1980), "Let's Float" / "Strike Talks" (on MCA, 1981), and "Listen To Your Radio" / "Watched By Everyone" (on MCA, 1981). The guys are sometimes known by "The Donkees" and other alternate names.

3. The Donkeys were a Japanese band featuring a Noise rock and hardcore punk sound. The Kyushu Island group had an abrasive ethos very unlike their j-rock contemporaries and created aptly titled tracks such as "Anti-war", "I'm Wanking In The City", "Fuck Your Life", and others.

None of the above are to be confused with 60s rock group Keld & The Donkeys. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Donkeys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.