There are several bands called The Advantage.
1. An American video game covers band
2. A British dance-rock band

1. The Advantage is an american rock band from Nevada City, California formed in 1998 that specialize in doing covers of music from old Nintendo Entertainment System games. They have covered songs from numerous games, including Mega Man, Castlevania and Metroid.  As of 2006 they have released two albums on the indie label 5RC (5 Rue Christine Records):-
* The Advantage
* Elf-Titled

The band consists of Robby Moncrieff (guitar), Ben Milner (guitar), Carson Mcwhirter (bass) of EVERYBODY & Hella, and Spencer Seim (drums) of Hella.

Nick Rogers and Forrest Harding are the two original members that started the band, and Cassie Stewart was featured on bass for awhile as well. At the time the band was called Generic.

Official website: http://www.theadvantageband.com/

2. The Advantage is a British rock band. They play "Dance-floor Punk with Brass that gets you moving" and describe themselves subsequently:

An aggressive mix of Pop Punk, Dance and Rock held together with Horns. Advantage are in their element making you dance and getting your heart racing. This concoction of melodic vocals, massive punk riffs, fast-paced beats and blasting brass sounds unique, but its the energy, power, and unforgettable infectiousness with which the band attack that makes them stand out.

Advantage will get you pumped up, feeling alive, energetic and help shake off the day to day routine. Looking for a lift from manufactured pop and karaoke singers? Then today has something different, a more upbeat, positive side to the world of alternative music. Join the growing army of Advantagents! Plug in, turn up and let go. Advantage are here.

Formed in March 2009 they have already fluttered their wings with extensive tour dates and are gaining momentum fast with a pure DIY ethic. 

Their most recent release is called Future Echoes and has received local radio play, Kerrang! Late License show and reviews online as well as being featured in national magazine - RockSound as ‘Ones to Watch in 2010’ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Advantage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.