The Defaced was born in late 1999 after the members had broken off with their pasts in different local acts. The line-up proved to be molded out of hardest steel in both musicianship and friendship. Henrik Sjöwall, Mattias Svensson, Klas Ideberg (Darkane / Terror 2000), Jörgen Löfberg (Darkane) and Henry Ranta (Soilwork) started writing material for the purpose of recording a demo to be sent to labels. When several songs were ready the band hit the studio to lay down four tracks. The result turned out very well indeed which was proven with the fact that the demo was sent to only one label (Scarlet) that immediately signed the band. The Defaced started writing and preparing for the recording of their debut album, which was recorded in February 2001 in Hit-Parade studios in Örkelljunga, Sweden. The album, ”Domination Commence”, was released in September the same year in Europe and Japan, and in February 2002 in the American territories, by Nuclear Blast America. ”Domination Commence” round up tons of great reviews and the band’s reputation started to grow. Live gigs were hailed, both domestically and internationally which strengthened the reputation even further.
In August of 2002 The Defaced was once again ready to hit the studio, this time for the recording of the second album. Many things had changed for the band, in the musical expression as well as in the sound. It was evident, even at pre-production, that the new material was going bring the band’s sound and material up not just a notch, but miles above the first album. The recording sessions this time around were to take place in Queenstreet Recording and in Darkane Studio. In October of 2002 the album was finished. With fat production, strong melodies, creativity, originality and skill: The result totally speaks for itself! The album was given the title ”Karma in Black” and a video was shot for the track ”Once in Between”.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Defaced">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.