1)  Indonesian rock n roll band, the band was formed in 2001 at West Java, Indonesia by the duo Bram (Guitar,Vocal) and his elder brother Daud (Drum,Vocal). Psychedelic Modern Rock Blues became their music root. The name 'The Experience' was taken from the legendary group called 'The Jimi Hendrix's Experience'. Their first album was recorded in a full format player, but here and there we can hear the two guys playing duo (Guitar and drum only). For now, they've decided to play with only two players and preparing to record their second album. Now become 'The Experience Brothers'

2) A 3 piece rock band from coventry, formed by 2 guys. One called tylar and one called jack. The band started off as "The Tylar And Jack Experience", but after a while they decided they wanted to form a 3 piece. Soon after they asked there freind james if he would acompany them on their journey, he of course accepted and thats when The Experience was born.

3) Also, there is a Christian band called the Experience:
From personal strife to global issues, The Experience was formed to give a voice to the voiceless. They not only strive to tell the stories of the overlooked, the captive, and the lost, but to bring life and awareness through hauntingly uplifting melodies that cut right to the core of the human spirit. Similar to the vocal styling of Eddie Veddar and Rob Thomas mixed with the instrumental passion of the likes of Dave Matthews, the band finds their own sound that is far from the ordinary. Their heartfelt lyrics and driving melodies breathe hope and truth into a suffocating world. The Experience not only presents their unique musical talent to listeners, but also their passion for people. 

Members:
Bryan Wood (guitar & vocals)
Brent Mason (guitar & vocals)
Jordan Williams (bass)
Shane Stendell (drums)
Jeramie Warwick (keys)

They have one self-titled release.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Experience">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.