The Weeping Willow is a Lebanese Death Metal band who started in 1996 with Garo, Clement(ex-guitarist) and Geno . At the time the band was known as Opposites and played black metal influenced by Emperor, Naglfar, Dissection Several members joined later on to complete the line-up(1998) At this time The bands name changed from Opposites to The Weeping Willow , several songs were done and a couple of gigs performed.

Some of the band's influences are Deicide, Unleashed, Cannibal Corpse, Morbid Angel...

The Weeping Willow faced many problems such as, line up changes, conflict in musical direction and The HEAVY METAL ISSUE IN LEBANON (Going to JAIL, Fights etc..)which you all know and dont need to talk about. some of the old members left, Marco switched to bass and Rafik joined the band on drums in the year 2000. After the exit of former members the Musical style leaned towards death metal, mainly influenced by death metal bands which we were raised on such as: Morbid Angel, Unleashed, Obituary, Benediction, Death... 
Geno had to leave the band for a while and was replaced by Ralph, who figured as vocalist on our first demo album Garden of Misery FIRST DOOM DEATH METAL RELEASE IN THEIR COUNTRY   . Several big concerts followed which were pretty successful with amazing reactions from the crowd 

Geno came back in late autumn 2001. The band opened up for Theatre of Tragedy , Material for our SECOND ALBUM was being prepared but due to lack of funding, Marco and Rafik joining the army, and the rise again of the Metal Issue (jail....) which has been persecuting Heavy metal musicians since 1995 & made a couple of news headline. The band had to wait for the storm to pass until late 2003 to enter the studio. 

On September 2004, Weeping Willow released their SECOND  album "MENTALLY DECAYED"  in Rock Fest, and VIRGIN MEGASTORE which sold locally around 600 copies. 

In June 2006 Weeping Willow opened for Finish band Apocalyptica!! and In july 2006 performed in RockNation with Macbeth. 

Joeseph left to France in August 2006 and was replaced by x-Armageddon guitarist Elias Njeim. 

The Band entered the studio in December 2006 (IQ Studios) and recorded their THIRD ALBUM  entitled The Third Portal  which was released a couple of months later in July 2007 (Digipack format) & is being sold @ virgin megastore ,.

Jr is now relocated in the U.A.E.but is still part of The Weeping Willow which are currently working on the release of their 4th album. 

The Weeping Willow is the oldest band in their country still standing and the only to have 3 albums in its Arsenal.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Weeping+Willow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.