Melodic Death Metal/Metalcore band from Austria.

Unflinchingly, the Austrians THE LAST WARNING follow their musical path, without letting current trends in the metal scene dissuade them. After their first demo album, In Case of Fire, in 2003, recruiters of Brainstorm Music Marketing took notice of the band and immediately published one of their self-produced songs on the All Freaks Sampler. Based on the Sampler, THE LAST WARNING set off on the All Freaks Tour bringing their sound to stages in Switzerland and Germany.
In 2004, the band signed with the Indie Label Ton 4 Records and produced its first album, Face 2 Face. The German Metal Hammer magazine called it, "a skilful thrashing", bringing the band's tour de force quite to the point. With Face 2 Face in the bag, the band played numerous clubs and small festivals, celebrated by the underground community.
In 2006, the sequel, Chainbreaker, followed, also on Ton 4 Records, opening up additional opportunities for the hungry musicians. Concerts extended to Slovenia, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and THE LAST WARNING shared stages with Maroon, Deadsoil, Machine Made God and others.
A milestone for the band was surely summer 2007 when they were invited as headliner for a tour in Indonesia. As the first metal band ever, they toured Bali, played the Headbangers in Hell Festival as well as club shows in Jakarta. Highlight of the tour was the huge Soundrenaline Festival in Padang (Sumatra) where THE LAST WARNING performed for 20.000 people as one of the headliners on the main stage.
Back in Europe, the band played several shows in Austria and Eastern Europe before they withdrew to write songs for their new album. In Summer 2008 THE LAST WARNING was invited again to Indonesia to perform on the biggest stages in the band's career. (e.g. Pekanbaru 25.000 people, Medan 45.000 people). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Last+Warning">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.