There are multiple artists with this name:

1. The Weir are an atmospheric sludge/post-metal band from Calgary, Canada.  

Bandcamp

2. Hailing from Southsea, UK is the one man production house that is The Weir. For over a decade his blend of Hip Hop influenced bedroom composition has trickled out with a consistency in quality, and more importantly growth that should make even some of the more established 'guerrilla' producers hang their head in shame. Never one to shy away from experimentation Weir has gone from self released hip hop enthusiast to cosmic Morricone and back again. But along the way the beats got thicker, the bass got groovier and the sound got 'deeper'. 

But, to call The Weir a mere bedroom composer is unfair, whilst his earlier instrumental releases were clearly inspired by the beats of producers such as the RZA, Prince Paul, DJ Shadow, Pete Rock and DJ Premier, his sound has always progressed. A string of self released and inventively titled EP's Fandango!, Airborne Toxic Event, Devil May Care and the bemusing Legend of Kid Icarus - 6 tracks of orchestral, atmospheric and underground beats forming a backdrop to a mystical fantasy set against a distant stratosphere, a soundscape of slipstreams and turbulence, cool breezes and blue sky. All of this experience acted as an experimental love letter to the aforementioned artists, the sound was clearly becoming something more than just beats and noise. 

Skyhooks brought it all back home. To hip hop. To song. Without eschewing the more experimental edge crafted previously. Skyhooks is clearly still being approached as a soundtrack, to what? Only the Weir knows and we, the listeners can only speculate. This digital only release set the groundwork for what has become The Weir of today, which is more than a bedroom artist; a craftsman, and he shows no sign of slowing down. Recently releasing a track with Seez Mics from Educated Consumers. Winning the remix competition for Laura Vane & The Vipertone's 110% coming out on Unique Records in June 2012 and the possibility of a physical release of Skyhooks. The Weir is an artist who wants to move forward, insists on change - whilst never forgetting his roots. 

With a promo EP to be released this summer which will include tracks from Skyhooks, the Seez Mics track and a smattering of new material and with a beautiful new EP of instrumentals entitled 'Gaslamp Romance' in the can and ready to go - we'll be hearing much more from the Weir, the only question is when? <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Weir">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.