The True Endless have been created in winter 1997, to create violent and trendkiller Black Metal.
From 1998 to 2000 the band have produced several mc’s, reheasals, demos and promos, splits and compilations now ultra rare, mostly considered as cult Black Metal releases...look on the assaults section MC for more details. 

Then The True Endless started his collaboration with the Scottish underground label Aphelion Productions. Between 2001 and 2007 Aphelion releases the split CD with Goat Horns , the first CD/LP album “Wings Of Wrath” the second CD/LP album “A Climb To Eternity” and the CD album “Buried By Time And Dust”
At the same time the band collaborates with other underground labels making some splits like the 7” split with Goblin Spell (E.O.L.P.-Germany), the 4 way split CD with Blodulv, Malignance and Sigma Draconis (Nocturnal Brights Records-Italy), the split CD with Angmar (Bestial Burst Records-Finland), the split 7” with Aquer (Necromancer Records-Germany) and the split 7” with Mephisto (Vomitum Niger Productions-Italy).
During this period the band never stopped to make his productions on mc too due to the respect to this true underground support!

Now the band has released the new album on Aphelion Productions again. 
It’s a concept album based on Jack The Ripper myth called “1888 from hell”. The album come out as a double CD in dvd box limited at 666 copies…first CD is the “1888 From Hell” album as the second one is a live rite captured in 2007 e.v. to celebrate the 10 years of activity of the band.

Ar rhis time the band is preparing new assaults for future split releases and for the new album... 

In the years the horde tooks part at some very important festivals like Black Celtic Summit (III and IV) , Hellblast Festivals, Tradate Iron Feast IV and many other concerts all around Italy.
In this long time the true Endless have played gigs with many bands as  Opera IX (The founding member of The True Endless M is the leading vocalist of Opera IX since 2003) , Dismember, Horna, Black Lodge, Vorkreist, Morrigan, Besatt, Mortuary Drape,  Handful Of Hate, Meridian, Malvento, Gosforth, Adversam, Fearbringer, Abhor, Death Dies, Frostmoon Eclipse, Sacradis, Vexed, Hatework, Hellstorm, Black Flame, Lifend, Imago Mortis, Tipheret, and many more.

Split up in 2017. Presumably due to Marco De Rosa's death (16 november 2017). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+True+Endless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.