Alain Quême, also known as Alan Braxe, is a French electronic music artist. Braxe is most widely known for his collaborative work with electronic bassist Fred Falke and Kris Menace. In 2005 Alan released The Upper Cuts, a collection of his previous released material.

Alan Braxe began work as a musician in Paris in the mid-1990s. He is seen as a key figure in the French electronic music scene. His nickname is a variant of Brax[disambiguation needed], a region in France where he used to live. He is the cousin of DJ Falcon (Stephane Quême) and Quartet (Delphine Quême).
Braxe's debut single, 'Vertigo' came out on Roulé in 1997. It was a hit in large part thanks to the 'Virgo Edit' of the song, which was co-produced with Thomas Bangalter. Braxe scored a major hit in 1998 with 'Music Sounds Better with You' a track co-written with Bangalter from Daft Punk and Benjamin Diamond under the name Stardust that reached number one on the United States Dance chart. He later formed Vulture Music, and continued to release singles under its imprint, including the 2004 hit 'Rubicon'.

Recently he has become an in-demand remixer, contributing remixes (frequently co-produced with Fred Falke) for Goldfrapp, Röyksopp, Test Icicles, Annie, Shakedown, Kylie Minogue and Justice.
Alan Braxe has produced remixes for a number of artists. At first, many of these were associated with the French electronic music scene, but recently the popularity of his 'Rubicon' single has led to more high profile jobs for mainstream rock and electronic artists.

In 2005, Braxe signed the track 'Discopolis' to his record label Vulture, produced by Kris Menace and Lifelike, which became one of the biggest selling tracks of the year. Together and with the help of Kris Menace, Braxe started DJing in 2006. Braxe & Menace also released 'Lumberjack' on 4 June 2007.
In 2008, Alan Braxe and Kris Menace decided to DJ separately and Braxe released 'Nightwatcher', also known by the title 'Addicted' on the English label Eye Industries. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Paradise">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.