Holding for the right time to strike requires discipline. The heavy metal tank known as The Resurrection Sorrow has been idling for some time—ominously. All the while being shovel fed swamp water and coffin dirt, preparing its attack. 

Favoring raw emotion over contrived calculation, the NYC four-piece craft songs of anthemic proportions. Using stone-heavy handed riffing, barbaric percussive destruction and brooding, occult-inspired vocals by singer Alex Dementia, TRS has trademarked a hooking catchiness not easily ignored. With homage being paid to the oracles of 1970’s England, the Bay Area of the 1980’s and those of 1990’s Seattle and American swamplands, TRS has taken the torch from its predecessors and is just taking it further into the cave. 

TRS was founded by vocalist Alex Dementia (ex After Dark) and bassist/guitarist Alex Coelho (Tides Within, ex-Malstrom). Riffs were four-tracked and passed back and forth, being woven into what would become the band’s debut, “Hour of the Wolf”. The project gained momentum and sincerity with the enlistment of renowned NYC drummer Louie Gasparro (Supervillain, Murphy’s Law, Blitzspeer). Working for months as a three-piece, the unit continued to shape the entity, demoing 11 songs in late October of 2008. 

By January of 2009, TRS had teamed up with veteran NYC engineer Joe Hogan (Nebula, The Atomic Bitchwax) and began tracking in several locations in Brooklyn and NYC. “Hour of the Wolf” is an exercise in sonic might, running the gamut between thunderous riffing, snarling hooks and deep-rooted grooves. Mixed at One East Studio in NYC, Hogan melded the rawness of the band with an arresting depth. 

Louisiana native Zak Gross was recruited to handle the lead guitars for the recording. His ability as a shredder and enthusiasm for the project made him a lock as the band’s guitar player, seeing Coelho shifting to bass. 

TRS is bringing something back. The wheel is not being reinvented here—it’s being reinforced. “Hour of the Wolf” will see a November 2009 release date, after which TRS will take a grass roots approach to touring—a forward blasting unit with a reverent eye on the rearview mirror. 

FOR BOOKING CONTACT US HERE OR AT : booking@resurrectionsorrow.com 

FOR ALL PRESS INQUIRIES PLEASE CONTACT:
Earsplit PR
Dave Brenner
earsplitpr@aol.com
www.earsplitcompound.com
www.myspace.com/earsplitpr
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Resurrection+Sorrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.