There are two artists listed under The Awful Truth.


1) Performing under the moniker The Awful Truth, Brent Colbert is an intuitive singer/songwriter and DIY musician living in Minneapolis, MN who has been direct support for acts like Owen Pallet, Angel Olsen, the The Dodos. Brent Colbert has played under the moniker The Awful Truth, releasing different formations of the band with various tours both solo and with band lineups. 2012's 'Birthright' is the folk ridden narrative of Colbert's time in Utah, before relocating to the Twin Cities back towards his Midwestern roots. Colbert's hypnotic folk songs shift shapes and provide duality and layers in meaning and perspective.

After the release of ‘Birthright’, Colbert set out on a nationwide tour, performing 54 shows across North America (including a stop by the Daytrotter Studios) in the fall of 2012.  Since relocating to Minneapolis in May of 2013, The Awful Truth has taken on a new sound with Laurie Geving, Stephen Sokolouski, and Chris Madden, filling Colbert’s songs with cathartic sounds, strings, and brooding pop melodies.

The Awful Truth's 2015 release, 'Lakewater' is 7 surreal pop songs honing in on a new sound, both melodic and experimental. Performed with Laurie Geving, Stephen Sokolouski, and Chris Madden, 'Lakewater' is full of cathartic tones and strings, creating brooding pop melodies no doubt inspired by the dramatic seasons in the Midwest. The record was recorded by Andrew Jansen (Dial Up, Crimes) in South Minneapolis with a lo-fi approach to production, providing an intimate quality and nuances. 

To premiere the new album The Awful Truth is touring the Northwest (#lakewatertour) with tour dates around Treefort Music Festival, returning home to release the new record on Minneapolis label The Homestead Records on April 7. (album release April 11 at Icehouse with Strange Relations)


2) The Awful Truth were a progressive metal band from the late 1980s based in Houston, Texas, United States. They were a three piece consisting of Monty Colvin, Alan Doss and David von Ohlerking. They released one album, the self-titled The Awful Truth. After the band split, Colvin and Doss formed the Galactic Cowboys. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Awful+Truth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.