When their noise pop band, Further, ended in the late '90s, the Rademaker brothers, Brent and Darren, mostly went their separate ways musically. Brent ended up forming Beachwood Sparks, while Darren started up the Tyde. After getting money from Geffen to start a band and then coming up empty, Darren drifted away from music for a bit. When his muse returned, he gathered up some friends and started playing again. With Ben Knight on bass (then guitar), Ann Do on guitar (and later keyboards), and a variety of drummers, the group made a name for itself on the Los Angeles scene with its mix of classic U.K. indie pop influences and its beachy country-rock vibes. By the time of the Tyde's first album, 2001's Once, the lineup included a bunch of guys from Beachwood Sparks (brother Brent on bass and vocals, Christopher Gunst on drums, and Farmer Dave Scher on pedal steel guitar and keys). Released by The Track & Field Organization, the record also featured a guest appearance by the Pink Fairies' Twink on tambourine.
Go Ask Yer Dad [EP]After releasing the 2012 "Blood Brothers" single and early-2013 Go Ask Yr Dad EP, the group returned with a record for a new label, Rough Trade, later in 2013. Twice featured a more confident sound that took even more influence from Felt than their debut did, which was plenty. The album featured much the same lineup, only with a new drummer, Velvet Crush's Ric Menck. He stuck around for the next album, 2003's Three's Co., as did the regular crew. They were joined by Maroon 5 bassist Mickey Madden on one track and the Thrills' lead vocalist, Conor Deasy, on another. Apart from an appearance on Through the Wilderness: A Tribute to Madonna, performing an acoustic cover of "Hung Up," the band mostly vanished after the album's release.
Darren 4While they played the occasional show, attempts to record their fourth album stalled over and over. By the time 2016's Darren 4 came out on the Spiritual Pajamas label, Rademaker had tried four different times in four different studios to get the record done. Darren 4 featured some familiar faces, like his faithful brother Brent and guitarists Ben Knight and Colby Buddelmeyer. Also along for the ride were keyboardist Bobby Rodriguez, drummer Richard Gowen, and guitarist Neal Casal, along with former Suede guitarist Bernard Butler, who played and sang on a track.

There is another band with the same name:
(2) The TYDE (late 60's band from Iowa, known for songs such as Psychedelic Pill and Lost) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Tyde">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.