During the late 90’s Charlotte was the hot spot of activity in what has become the much lauded North Carolina hardcore scene. It was home to Prayer For Cleansing, From Here On, Undying and countless others. With all those extremely vital bands now defunct, The Damascus Intervention has arrived to help carry the torch, thus lighting a path for the new breed of North Carolina hardcore. Like Prayer For Cleansing and Undying before them The Damascus Intervention combine a vast array of influences and inspirations from metal, hardcore, a straight-edge ideology all the while experimenting with more emotionally driven guitar interplay. Over the last few years The Damascus Intervention have been slugging it out in the trenches playing as many shows as possible throughout the South East and sharing the stage with such notable and diverse acts as: Through the Eyes of the Dead, Glass Casket, Misery Index, Haste The Day, Kill Whitney Dead, Arsis, Extol, Dead To Fall, Fight Paris, The Acacia Strain and Embrace Today.

Their Tribunal Records debut, “Carefully Built | Carelessly Destroyed” was produced by Jamie King (Between the Buried and Me, Beloved, Glass Casket, Kill Whitney Dead, etc) as they felt he was the best person to help capture the intensity of their destructive live show. Besides the audio content found on “Carefully Built | Carelessly Destroyed” there is also an entire live set filmed in North Carolina. The video was filmed and edited by Blake Faucette of Series DVD fame and features 2 unreleased tracks not found on “Carefully Built | Carelessly Destroyed.” The pits will keep getting bigger and the touring will never cease as The Damascus Intervention plan to spread the word about the new blood flowing here in North Carolina’s hardcore scene.

*from damascus intervention's website*
http://www.thedamascusintervention.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Damascus+Intervention">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.