In late 1972, American blues rock multi-instrumentalist Edgar Winter brought together Dan Hartman, Ronnie Montrose, and Chuck Ruff to form the Edgar Winter Group, the legendary band that created such classic rock hits as the number one "Frankenstein" and the ever popular "Free Ride". Released in 1973, the band's debut album, 'They Only Come Out at Night', peaked at the #3 position on the Billboard Hot 200 and stayed on the charts for an impressive 80 weeks. It was certified gold in April 1973 and double platinum in November 1986. The album has continued to attract critical acclaim, with the All Music Guide labeling its songs as "red-hot".

Winter's group is also known for its innovation, with the frontman inventing the keyboard body strap early in his career. Said innovation allows him the freedom to move around on stage during his multi-instrument high-energy performances. He was also one of the first artists to feature a synthesizer as the main instrument in a song. "Frankenstein" in particular revolutionized modern rock and roll and opened up a whole new world of possibilities with experimentation and sound. 

After 'They Only Come Out at Night', the band released 'Shock Treatment', featuring guitarist Rick Derringer in place of Ronnie Montrose. That musican went on to work in Montrose and other groups. Although not quite able to capture the same free spirit as the group's earlier album, 'Shock Treatment' earned major critical praise, and the band continued its lively tour schedule.

Later releases from Edgar Winter and his associates include the albums 'Jasmine Nightdreams', 'The Edgar Winter Group with Rick Derringer' (a live album), 'Together Live With Johnny Winter', 'Recycled' (a reunion with White Trash), 'Standing On Rock', 'Mission Earth', 'Live In Japan', 'Not A Kid Anymore', 'The Real Deal', and 'Winter Blues'.

Mainstream success has eluded Winter's various band line-ups since their 70s heyday, but their work has remained radio staples. Winter continues to tour as of 2013. More information is available on his official website here. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Edgar+Winter+Group">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.