From Seattle, located in the heart of the rain drenched, frozen wastes of the Pacific Northwest, comes The Devils of Loudun. A six-man symphonic technical death metal outfit named from a tale of religious fanaticism and demonic possession in 17th century France. Formed in the Summer of 2009, the band quickly gained ground in the Washington State metal scene by destroying every possible show that was thrown at them. Drawing from influences which are spread across a wide musical spectrum, The Devils of Loudun's ever-evolving sound has been called a combination of Scandinavian melodic death metal, symphonic power metal and American death metal topped with hearty serving of classical and video game influenced melodies. 
In 2015 the band finished up recording and releasing their first official EP titled “Entering Oblivion,” a 4 track release which garnered widespread critical acclaim and positive reviews. Danny Sanderson of Metal Temple said this about the release: “In less than twenty minutes, this band has managed to craft something that is not only more unique than what most underground Death Metal acts are peddling, but also significantly better. 9/10 rating.” In the Summer of 2015 The Devils of Loudun embarked on the “Entering Oblivion” West Coast Tour playing 9 shows across 4 states.
The band wasted no time after tour and in July of 2015 started recording their next EP titled “Enduring Creation.” 5 songs long and clocking in at 27 minutes, this release is a darker, heavier, faster and more epic sequel to DOL’s well received 2015 release. Shortly after the official release of Enduring Creation on April 8th 2016 the band will embark on a 12 date tour across 8 states in the Western US to promote the release. Be sure to catch the band on “Until The Tour Ends” Spring 2016 Tour, which starts on April 13th 2016!
Line up:
Scott Hermanns - Guitar
Drew Tuel - Lead Guitar
LJ Cline - Bass
Billy Keller - Drums
Ben Velozo - Keyboards
Vance Bratcher - Vocalist <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/THE+DEVILS+OF+LOUDUN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.