Combining the intensity of Punk and the crunch of old school Heavy Metal, The Unavowed stormed on to the Ottawa, Ontario Canada scene with a blistering debut show at Zaphod Beeblebrox in May 2007. Since then they have had the opportunity to open for such acts as Exodus, Drillpoint, Hellacasut, Zoroaster and many many more.

Formed eight months prior, this hard hitting four piece consisting of vocalist Dan Lalonde, guitarist Nicholas Toone, bassist Jason Carey, and drummer Chris Mesner worked overtime to mold themselves in to a head nodding, eardrum splitting crowd pleaser.

The musical tastes of the band vary. They all share a love of Metal but other influences vary from member to member. Chris draws from punk, psychobilly, industrial, and plain old rock n' roll. Jason is usually found listening to weird, yet awesome bands no one has heard of. Dan is a self professed Elvis fan. Nick veers all over the map; his playlists may include The Dillinger Escape Plan, The Wonderstuff, or Placebo.

Make no mistake, The Unavowed is not your usual, showy Metal band. The band craves simplicity. "We just want people to show up and have fun," Chris says. "There's no bullshit with us."

"The majority of club goers don't want to come out and watch you stare at your instrument while you play scales at a million miles an hour," Nick adds. "They want to drink beer, hang out, and listen to music that they understand and can relate to."

Following this mantra, The Unavowed have completed their second E.P. due out in April of 2010, and are busy writing more material, and planning/rehearsing future live shows.

"We've evolved. We have solid songs on this new E.P. We have a good following and can't get enough of playing live. It's amazing to see emails and see that people from all over the world are really into our music" says Dan. "The best has yet to come; we're only getting started." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/the+unavowed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.