The Murder Of My Sweet is a Gothic Symphonic band from Sweden.

THE MURDER OF MY SWEET - A name inspired by the 1944 movie Murder, My Sweet. The path, beliefs and concept which the five members of the band share - the journey each of the members has endured finally led them to one another, building up to this point, to realizing common goals.

Formed by drummer, songwriter and producer Daniel Flores who after a few false starts of what was to become The Murder Of My Sweet just by coincidence came across the magnificent singer Angelica Rylin - well endowed with the right look, voice and talents, being exactly what Daniel was searching for. The rest of The Murder Of My Sweet’s line up was then rather easily recruited - guitarist Daniel Palmqvist, bass player Johan Niemann and keyboardist Andreas Lindahl all being mentally, creatively and spiritually the right combination to complete the perfect match.

The Murder Of My Sweet is simple yet stirring musical statement that expands the boundaries of what great music is all about. The band’s sound is rich in influence and yet distinctly unique. The lush melodic cinematic landscapes reflect the diversity of the five members own musical experiences. From Angelica’s soaring vocal melodies and sweeping choruses to the explosive layers of guitars from Palmqvist and the thrilling orchestratic keyboard arrangements painted by Andreas Lindahl backed by the bombastic and dynamic rhythms of Niemann and Flores. The resulting collaborations are a work both haunting and uplifting - fuelled by the curiosity of seeing where their burning ambitions will take them.

The material is mainly written by the wonder team Daniel and Angelica - but not without the inspiration spark and input from the other three members - with songs based on personal experiences, movies and books. The collection of material which has been selected for the bands debut album DIVANITY include all from dark subject matters to pure fiction. Kiss of Death takes a glimpse into the state of love where you give up your self for the desire to have or to do something that you know you should avoid while Bleed Me Dry describes the feeling of being different and wanting to go your own way in life. Follow The Rain is all about breaking a pattern from where you make the same mistakes over and over again into becoming a person with control of your life. The track Storms Of The Sea is a beautiful tale of a young woman on her quest around the world to seek her long lost lover and No Evil is the band’s encouragement to embrace the dark rather than being afraid of it.

The grand finale of the album is the larger than life and described by Rylin and Flores as The Murder Of My Sweet’s own “Bohemian Rhapsody” - a track call Death Of A Movie Star. A massive piece of music which will showcase The band’s dynamics with a sense of playfulness by switching from soft, rippling sounds and beats to limitless rage with beautiful melodies. Magnificent layers of voices shake hands with immeasurable capacity of energy.

The band’s aim is to create a distorted film noir vibe and experience - put the wonder, sadness, humor and sheer zest of life into their music tour de force. Playing it to the point where their drama explode - as the music and the words becomes the utmost expression of direct and ecstatic joy of pure being. The name DIVANITY is the bands own expression of diva, divine and vanity - all of them being essential ingredients in their debut album.

Mixed/produced by Flores and proudly mastered at Cutting Room by Swedish phenomenal sound engineer Mats Lindfors (Gorgoroth, Candlemass, Glenn Huges, Talisman), Divanity will be released by Frontiers Records in November 2009. The Murder Of My Sweet is highly excited to be working with such an experienced and talented label as Frontiers and feel extremely privileged to be band mates with bands such as Journey, Toto and Survivor to mention just a few.

Current lineup
Angelica Rylin - Vocals
Daniel Palmqvist - Guitar
Johan Niemann - Bass
Andreas Lindhal - Keyboards
Daniel Flores - Drums

The Murder Of My Sweet at Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Murder+of+My+Sweet">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.