The story of The Lust I Seek is not one of the most interesting ones. It simply begins with two guys of similar views (namely, Wuorinen and Pekkala) chatting by beer about forming a band that plays emotional metal and continues through rehearsals and demo records to this point where we now stand. Few milestones have been planted along the road with the first release Where Shadows Grow Silent (2003) being the first one. At that point the band was looking for it's own sound and style, as every beginning group, but the core of the music was clear. It was sad and filled with anguish. Release gathered few good reviews around the globe, most of the time from anywhere else, but Finland, which is the homeland of the band. By the time of that release the second guitarist, Suhonen, had only just joined the group so his efforts play lesser role on the first demo.

On the second release Serpent Scripts (2004) Suhonen was clealry a part of the band and the group had really evolved with their playing skills. This release gathered more and better reviews that the first one and was from every aspect closer to personal and unique style that The Lust I Seek still tries to achieve. The melancholy and doomy riffs still played great role, but this time they were accompanied by much more aggressive parts and more gothic metal influences. It is interesting mixture of different genres, but it still maintains it's own melodic and sad mood. Suhonen and Pekkala wrote songs that they should never be ashamed of. On the lyrical concept this release was way more mature and deeper mixing poetry and strong sentences with gothic aesthetics. In every aspect this release had so much more.

As for the future, split release with Funeral Planet will be the next bigger move containing two songs from our side. And next release might not be too far either. Depending on how everything goes. Not as planned, that's for sure. But none can see the future, so we will return here to write down how things went when we know better. Until then, stay tuned for the mark of the vampiric legion!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+lust+I+seek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.