Note! There are several bands called "The Rain". 

1) The Rain is a Pop-Rock Band from Yogyakarta, Indonesia. They have released five full-length albums so far. Hujan Kali Ini (2003), Senandung Kala Hujan (2005), Serenade (2007), Perjalanan Tak Tergantikan (2009), and Jingga Senja dan Deru Hujan (2012). But even though they've been around for a decade, they just got noticed after releasing Single name 'Terlatih Patah Hati' featuring Endank Soekamti at 2013.
 
2) The Rain is a Finnish christian rock band, founded in Ikaalinen - nowadays located in Tampere. They play melodic hard rock and metal. The band is recognised also from their non-umbrella logo (see images). They got their current form in 1996, and the band consists of Tatu/Tatsi Haveri (vocals, bass) and Sami Haveri (vocals, keyboard), Pasi Hakala (drums) and Jussi Salo (guitars, vocals). For them, the band is a hobby and a way to spread the message of Christianity.

3) The Rain were an indiepop band from Basingstoke, England, active between 1986 and the early 1990s. The band was formed by singer/guitarist Clive Stubbings, bassist Tony Duckworth (ex-The Higsons), and drummer Chris Morrell. Their first single, "Tom Paine" was self-released, but caught the ear of Medium Cool Records, who signed them up. They contributed two tracks, "Dry The Rain" and "Seven Red Apples" to Medium Cool's Edge of The Road compilation album, but their first single for the label, "First Of May" never saw the light of day due to the collapse of Medium Cool's distributor, Red Rhino Records. The band's first album, To The Citadel, was released in 1989, desicribed by Melody Maker as "glorious, honed to cut-glass perfection", and gaining comparison with The Byrds and R.E.M. in Sounds. A 12" EP, "The Watercress Girl" followed in 1991. They changed their name to Clark Springs, releasing a single, "Talking Kent State" in 1993, and contributing "She Lives By The Castle" to A Tribute To Felt in 1995.

3) A band that was re-christened 'Oasis' shortly after their new singer Liam Gallagher joined.

4) "The Rain Band" were a Manchester three-piece (Richard Nancollis; Mark Lee; Stephen Taylor) signed to Universal/Island (Temptation Records) in 2001 and who split in 2004.  See separate entry under 'The Rain Band.'

5) "The Rain" was a brazilian grunge band active in the 1990's. They realeased a indepentent 18 tracks album, "Hidden Melody", in 1994.

7) Kim Yoon (a.k.a ''The Rain'') is Korean musician.

8.) The Rain from Sydney, Australia who formed in 1989. They released their EP "Love, Lies & Anxiety Attacks" in 1991. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Rain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.