If you didn’t know The Mantors are not a tribute Band
But a full on Hetro Power Band !


Your Parents Worst Nightmare! Strait From Hell Come The MANTORS! The Crushing Metal Sound That Brings You Back to Real Metal! No Glam, No Emo, and No Butt Rock! Guitars in your Face and Lyrics That will make your Mommys Cry!

with:
Marc Mad Dog Duce on Vocals and Drums- From The Mentors.
former Bands: American Standard, Hossbruten, Worked with band Like Dr Know, Christian Death and More.

A Long time Friend and Also lead Singer for the MENTORS. Marc Ran away from his home in Bakersfield Ca. as a lil kid to join the Mentors and live with our Lord EL DUCE at the IVAR Theater in HOLLYWOOD. Lord El Duce Pass on his drumming skills to and Taught Marc Duce to play drums in the mid 80s but Marc was to young to join the band at that time. But now has found his way Back Home to The MENTORS & The MANTORS.


Dr Heathen Scum on Guitar-from the Mentors and Kill Allen Wrench.

This Crusty Dirty Pervert is one of the Founders of the Original MENTORS along with El Duce and Sickie Wife Beater Change the Face of Metal forever. RAPE ROCK LIVES!


Scotty Psycho Slut Killer On Guitar -
Former Bands, Otep, American Standard, & Uncle Betty

This Alaskan Transplant also know as “COOL HAIR” Scotty has spent more than a decade crashing at peoples houses all over the USA. For the past 4 years has found a home in Marc Duce Landry room where he fucks a different slut every night and keeps Marc's T-Shirts Clean. He’s always Drunk, He’s Always at the Bar, And Always Taking Chicks for there Money! Scotty Is Know All over and has Played most clubs and theaters in the USA and Canada.

Big Meat on Bass -

A Bass playing Power House also known from the international band Adema. This Monster Bass player is a Jägermeister Drinking and Slut Smashing Machine!
Also known as Optimus Prim Rib Emo Killer from Outer Space who has come to our planet in search of All you can Eat Buffet, Cheap Motels, Sluts, and Jägermeister. He is a 300 pound Jagerbomb consuming figure of rock n roll glory!!

Meatball
Meatball came to the The Mantors with the claim that he was the son of El Duce himself.
His claimed is that his mom had a one night stand with El Duce in 1978 after a gig at the Show Box Theater in Seattle Washington and was a long time school friend of our lord Duce. When asking Dr heathen scum he said: if in fact he remembered that duce did have sex with a homeless girl out side the back door in the trash dumpster. But dose not remember the name of this alleged Puck Rock hooker. Meatball in facts drinks till he cant see, beats his wife, and pisses him self almost daily. True or not we will never know. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Mantors">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.