This is for three groups:

1) The Monitors was an Australian synth pop band of the early 1980s. They were primarily a studio group which involved a collaboration between Mark Moffatt and Terry McCarthy, featuring various vocalists.

Their biggest single was "Singin' In The '80s" which was released in 1980 and reached #16 on the Australian singles charts. The song was co-written by Moffat and McCarthy, with Kim Durant providing the vocals on the chorus. The video featured Gayle & Gillian Blakeney lipsyncing the vocals, the sisters went on to become television hosts on children's television show Wombat and actresses on television soap opera Neighbours. The video for the song famously featured the singers in the makeup used by rock group KISS.

Mark Moffatt has performed as a guitarist with other artists and bands. He is also a music producer and engineer who has worked with such artists as The Saints, Richard Clapton, Tim Finn, Renee Geyer, Mondo Rock, Mental As Anything, Jimmy and the Boys, Jenny Morris and Melinda Schneider.

Terry McCarthy went on to became a successful advertising executive.

Ricky Fataar went on to become a music producer.

2) The classic Motown group which began as "The Majestics" in 1964 and became The Monitors circa 1965. Group members included Richard Street (lead/background vocals), Warren Harris (background vocals), John "Maurice" Fagin (background vocals, and Sandra Fagin (lead/background vocals). The group was active until 1969-70 when Richard Street left to begin his gradual replacement of Paul Williams in The Temptations, a position he would hold for many years to come.

3) The band based in Orebro, Sweden. They debuted nov 17th at a local event.

Erik Osmark - Lead vocals/guitar
Alexander Heimonen - Synthesizer
Andreas Odelberg - Base/vocals
Simon Perrson - Lead guitar/vocals
Gustav Bruno - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Monitors">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.