THE GROTESQUERY was recently formed in early 2009, when musician ROGGA JOHANSSON {PAGANIZER, RIBSPEADER, DEMIURG, BONE GNAWER, & others...} and vocalist KAM LEE {BONE GNAWER - formerly of bands: MANTAS/DEATH, MASSACRE, DENIAL FIEND} started talking just after finishing up work on their Horror/Gore Death Metal band BONE GNAWER's debut album.

They had a several talks about creating a new band that would base it's lyrical themes on the dark supernaturual and creating a sort of 'concept' type album. With lyrics based on stories by H.P. Lovecraft's Macabre Tales, Ghost stories & poems by Ambrose Bierce & Edgar Allan Poe, the occult, the paranormal, the supernatural, all the morbid horrid terrors hidden in the dark places of the earth and those things that go bump in the night!
And to do it as a project with the type of music highly influenced from the brutal style of early 90's death metal bands - with a touch of the avant-garde and an unorthodox and experimental feel.

And now those conversations have become a reality in the form of the band called:
THE GROTESQUERY!

Keeping with traditional 90's "old school death metal style and sound" and forming a haunting atmosphere and chilling story line, Kam has crafted a gothic horror tale within his lyrics around ten dynamic, intense, and morbidly atmospheric death metal music tracks written by Rogga.

The idea and concept behind THE GROTESQUERY is to showcase more then just a simple album of death metal music. The idea here with "TALES OF THE COFFIN BORN" is to bring forth a dreaded dark atmospheric 'audio story' told around 10 intense tracks of death metal songs. Not just songs for the sake of songs, but an entire gothic horror story interwoven between audio intros and the music itself.
A dark story reflecting the evil deeds of a desperate man in order to save his 'coffin born' son from death. With the use of necromancy and forbidden black magick the man conjures forth the very gods of death and shadow, and thus makes a ghastly deal. In order to save his son he must take a life for every year his child is to live. The songs take you on a journey thru out the years of this mad mans fall from grace as he murders and kills victim after victim for every year his son is to live. And as the years pass on - the child becomes something of a grotesquery itself, lurking in shadows, feeding off of the blood of his father's sacrifices, and morbidly playing with the dead. The father must use geometric transfiguring magick to construst a dwelling for his son to live in from the safety of the world. And all the while the boy has become death incarnate itself. The child hideously deformed and existing somewhere between life and death, as a revenant - an undead, whose only companions are the corpses and mummified remains of the dead and the twisted little homunculi his father has created.

Once more Rogga proves himself to be a master song writer, and Kam once more steps into the light as a master story teller.
With the fantastic addition of master bass player Johan Berglund from the band THIS HAVEN and the intense percussion skills of master Brynjar Helgetun of the band LIKLUKT. THE GROTESQUERY is born from out of the grave! As well, the fantastic artistic skills of Grand Master Turkka Rantanen. Whose skills ad an entire dark & ominous atmosphere to the outer and inner layers of the album design. Bringing to life the mad scribblings and eccentric writings of Dr. Ward. And to finish off the insanity, the bands logo itched out and carved out by none other then the great Mark Riddick himself. So prepair yourself to be taken on a ghastly morbid journey of death, doom, insanity, and self destruction! Coming soon on the debut album: "TALES OF THE COFFIN BORN" from - THE GROTESQUERY - !!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Grotesquery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.