There is more than one artist with this name, including: 
1) The Revenants was an American band formed in 1996 in Louisville. 
2) The Revenants was a Canadian band formed in 2002 in Vancouver. 
3) The Revenants was an Irish rock band formed in Dublin in the early 90s. 
4) The Revenants were a 1990s Phoenix/Tempe alt-country band.

1) The Revenants was an American band formed on Oct 12 1996 that began playing in Feb 1997. The music was a fusion of Punk, Black Metal, Gothic, and other darker forms of music. The band is well known for the random display of macabre theatrics while performing. Discography: 1999 -Self titled- released by ssendam music 2000 -Live album -released D.I.Y. 2002 -Falselight E.P. -released by D.I.Y. New album and e.p. due summer of '07 Compilations: Cheap Thrills Vol. 1 Cheap Thrills Vol. 2 Music to murder that someone special to. Contributions: 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006 Original soundtrack for The Baxter Avenue Morgue, a haunted attraction in Louisville Ky.
http://www.myspace.com/revenants  
http://www.revenants.com

2) The Revenants was a Canadian band formed in 2002 in Vancouver consisting of childhood friends Jessica Emdee and Ariel Kwiatkowski, two Vancouver, Washington middle school students who shared similar tastes in music and a DIY punk ethic. Jessica had taught herself how to play guitar and was writing songs since the age of twelve.
“What got me to talk to her,” Jessica says, “was her constant drumming her hands on the table.”
Ariel lacked a drum kit, and says she “was inexperienced, but started banging on pots and pans anyways”.
Eventually they built up some musical equipment, as well as a catalog of songs. Despite hardships and lineup changes these two young women skeletized the band they had created literally from scratch. Guitarists Chris Loveland, Teryn Kilgore, and Winona Ruth; and bassists Blake Petersen, Shannon O'Brien, and Katherine Krajnak, were Revenants at different times between 2002-2008.
About half of the seven tracks on Kiss Me Deadly, their record, date back to those first practices in Ariel’s garage in Vancouver, where The Revenants still practice every Sunday.
- http://www.myspace.com/wearetherevenants

3) The Revenants was an Irish rock band formed in Dublin in the early 90s out of the remains of Dublin indie band and John Peel favourites, the Stars of Heaven. They released two albums of literate guitar pop, Horse of a Different Colour and Septober Nowonder.
 AllMusic Page <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Revenants">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.