The Life and Times is a Kansas City, MO indie rock band fronted by former Shiner bandleader Allen Epley.  After Shiner disbanded in late 2002, Epley began working with drummer Mike Myers and bassist/guitarist John "Houdini" Meredith and released their debut EP "The Flat End of the Earth" in the summer of 2003.  "Flat End's" most noticeable distinction from Shiner was the instrumentation; after the math-rock bombardment that marked Shiner, Epley found a looser, almost Floydian dynamic to his usual foundation of distorted guitar and brooding vocals, and the early material explored the moodier edge of their sound.  

Although the lineup had a fair amount of material recorded, the EP would end up being their only document.  After touring extensively for the EP, the lineup disbanded, with Mike Myers going to drum for The String and Return.  Epley, however, decided to recruit a new lineup under the same name, and brought in bassist Eric Abert of Ring, Cicada, and drummer Chris Metcalf to work out new material.  The difference is striking - Metcalf's drumming couldn't be further from Myers, laying out metric layers of relentless percussion that when combined with Abert's bass comes closer to Helmet than anything else.  For all of the heaviness, though, the songs themselves are prone to developing a shimmering beauty with layers of guitar and processed vocals cascading against the rhythm section, and "Suburban Hymns" goes deeper into the more emotional territory suggested on "Flat End."  

"Suburban Hymns" was released on DeSoto Records in August 2005.  The band toured the US, Spain, Portugal, and Japan to promote the album. While in Spain and Portugal the band released a split EP with tour mates Nueva Vulcano. The band also released a Japanese-only issue of "Suburban Hymns" that included an extra track ("Coda").   

In October 2006 "The Magician" EP was released and the band embarked upon a new tour of the US and Canada in support of the album. "The Magician" is the logical outgrowth of "Suburban Hymns," striking in its dreamlike psychedelic heaviness and strongly reminiscent of '90s shoegaze.    

official site: http://www.thelifeandtimes.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Life+and+Times">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.