There's a chasm between "a" and "the".  Placing "a" in front of an item can indicate that it is one of many.  A can be humble, unassuming.  "The", on the other hand, suggests singularity.  The can be audacious... presumptuous.  The Silent is a little bit of column A and a little bit of column THE.

The band's debut album ("Unseen") was recorded in part in Canada and in part in the UK, being produced by fellow expatriate Julian Kindred and mastered by the late great Chris Blair at Abbey Road Studios.  After its release, they started marathon-touring Canada and the US with the likes of Kutless, Downhere, and Everyday Sunday, and played notable festivals such as Kingdom Bound, Soulfest, and Pitch & Praise.  The noise they created was instrumental in getting them a CGMA/Covenant award for Best New Artist of the Year.  It also landed them a chance to record a track for the Wes King tribute project "Life Is Precious", where they were featured alongside the likes of Phil Keaggy, Derek Webb, and Paul Colman (to name just a few).   When their follow-up release ("Americanized") came out, it bumped up the number of singles they had on CHR radio to 7, 3 of which had cracked the top 5 in Canada.

Lineup changes caused original members Marc Jolicoeur and Dennis Prescott to take a step back and evaluate not only where the band had been, but also where it was going.  Through twists of fate, the hand of providence, or some unspecified combination of the two, they ended up in Nashville working with acclaimed production team Lyntt (Lynn Nichols and Tedd T), the sound behind the sounds of artists like Mutemath, Switchfoot, Delirious... nearly ad infinitum.  Currently, the three-piece (now rounded out by drummer Daniel Ahlbrandt) is writing, recording, and performing new material across the US, while preparing to head back to Canada in the Spring to tour in support of their new release.

From their Canadian roots to their American branches, The Silent is less "either/or" and more "both/and".  A + THE = The Silent.

www.TheSilentOnline.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Silent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.