The Intelligence is a lo-fi indie post punk rock band from Seattle, founded by Lars Finberg, drummer of the A-Frames.

Finberg played since the late '90s in other bands with vocalist/guitarist Erin Sullivan, and bassist Min Yee: the Dipers, and the Un-Natural Helpers. A Frames and the Intelligence started in 1999. Both acts released singles on Dragnet Records, the indie label Finberg runs with A Frames members Erin Sullivan and Min Yee.

2000, Dragnet released the first A-Frames single, recorded by Chris Woodhouse. S-S Records (founded by Scott Soriano & Sakura Saunders) released the band's next single, Plastica, in early 2001. By that fall, the A-Frames had enough material ready for their first, self-titled album, which was co-released by Dragnet and S-S in spring 2002 and produced by Woodhouse & Soriano. They recorded their second album, A-Frames 2, that fall, and released it via S-S the following spring. Later in 2003, the band recorded initial sessions for its third full-length. Two more 7"s were to follow on S-S (Complications and Police 1000) and Royal (Crutches). Two years after AF2, the A-Frames moved to Sub Pop, which released Black Forest (which as with s/t LP & 2 LP was recorded with Woodhouse & Soriano) in early 2005.

The Intelligence first release was a 7" ep on Dragnet Records. This was followed by the Test 45 on S-S. Finberg recorded songs at home and with other musicians, released on their debut album Boredom And Terror, released as vinyl with an extra cd (track of which were released on vinyl by Polly Maggoo in 2006). After their debut The Intelligence got signed to In the Red Records. On in the Red the second album was released, Icky Baby. A special limited 600 copy 45 RPM 12 was released in 2006 on the in the Red website.

The band opened two shows for The Fall at CMJ. The Intelligence first toured in Europe in 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Intelligence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.