The Callas is the tip of an artistic factory producing music, films, artworks, magazines, events, art shows initiated by the brothers Lakis & Aris Ionas based in Athens , Greece.
  The band The Callas consists of Aris (guitar, vocals) and Lakis (bass, vocals) Ionas, Chrysanthi (guitar, vocals) and Marilena Petridou (Drums).
Their new album “Half Kiss Half Pain” (Inner Ear) produced by Jim Sclavunos will be released on late January 2016.

  At the moment The Callas are working with Lee Ranaldo for the soundtrack of their new feature film “The Great Eastern”. They are also working with Lee Ranaldo and Leah Singer for a future live performance / installation.

  The last few years they have played all over Europe including: Liverpool Psyche Festival (Liverpool UK), The Great Escape Festival (Brighton, UK), Indigenes Festival (France), Reeperbahn Festival (Hamburg, DE),  Indietracks Festival (Derbyshire, UK), Artrocker Magazine (London,UK), Old Blue last (London, UK), The Windmill (London,UK), The Fly (London,UK), White Trash (Berlin), Club Fandango at The Monarch (London,UK), Barfly (London,UK), Alma Enterprises gallery (London,UK), Favela Chic (London, UK), Athens Biennial, Sala Apolo (Barcelona, ES), Espacio menos uno (Madrid, ES), Taktfrei fest (Berlin, DE), De Roode Bioscoop,(Amsterdam, Netherlands), Fieldgate Gallery (London, UK).
  They have performed live in churches, flats, boats, mountains, toilets and with bands/artists such as Thurston Moore, Lee Ranaldo, The Brian Jonestown Massacre, Ty Segall, Grinderman, Au Revoir Simone, You Say Party! We Say Die!, The Wedding Present and Television Personalities.

"HALF KISS HALF PAIN " Lp - 2016 
"Artrocker album of the week"

  “Am I Vertical?” Lp – 2013
“Rock ‘n’ Roll thick and heavy with a strong motorik backbone” – BrooklynVegan
“Disaster! Disaster! Disaster! It happens! So goes The Callas’ riotous chant over the dirgy, life-affirming garage rock stomp that is “Disaster.” – Noisey
“Sound Dense and deeply idiosyncratic with pronounced, Sonic youth / pixies – edged boy-girl vocal mood swings and propulsive guitars” – Mojo (****)


  The last 10 years Lakis & Aris Ionas are publishing significant magazines for the Athenian underground music/art/film scene such as Velvet magazine and Lust magazine. 
  Their studio is one of the most active cultural spaces in Athens. Going by the name Velvet Room they are organizing art shows combined with music gigs and DJ sets involving some of the best new bands and artists in Athens.
  They have exhibited their artworks all over the world including Palais de Tokyo (Paris), Family Business gallery (NYC), Dakis Joannou DESTE foundation (Athens), Faggionato Fine Art (London), Athens Biennial (Athens), Andreas Melas gallery (Athens), Yinka Shonibare 
  In 2013 they finished their first feature film “LUSTLANDS” (HAOS film) and it was premiered at the 7th Athens Avant-Garde Film Festival
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Callas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.