There is more than one band named 'The Big Idea'. This entry is for the alt-country-folk-rock-grunge-grass trio from Southeast Missouri.

When you need a soundtrack for a life full of sweet sadness accompanied by the unwavering happiness that is within us all, you need look no further than “The Big Idea.” Singing songs from the heart about lost loves, growing up, and rambunctious quarter-life antics; Tommy Main, Will Montgomery, and Hank Jones don’t just sing the words on the page… they live them. While playing in the 90’s rock cover band “Trippin Tuesday,” Tom set out on a mission to form an acoustic string band that not only played and wrote songs that meant something, but to keep the music honest and pure whether playing covers or originals. He enlisted the help of fellow local acoustic musician Will Montgomery. Montgomery, a member of the former Cape Girardeau newgrass band “Tipping Holly,” just asked Tom when and where to show up. Together, the two set out to use their knowledge of acoustic guitar, banjo, mandolin, bass, drums, and everything else under the sun to come up with a live show that is bigger than the two alone. With the addition of Hank Jones on bass guitar in the winter of 2009, the trio finally found the missing piece of the puzzle and low end punch that the former duo had been lacking! Whether playing to a crowded bar full of rowdy patrons, or to the quiet atmosphere of the quaintest coffee shop, “The Big Idea” is at home in any venue big or small with a live show to match any environment. As Will says, “The Big Idea” isn’t just a band, it’s an idea that we have. The idea that three guys can trade off of on any number of instruments and make the people move…move them on the floor first and foremost…but hopefully by the end of the night, move them into rethinking what they want out of live music. It’s an idea that songs from the heart and the soul should always beat out the radio songs.”  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Big+Idea">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.