There are six groups with this name:

1) The Four Horsemen were a band that had brief popularity in the late 1980's and early 1990's. They were based out of Hollywood California. Their 1st full-length CD, called "Nobody Said It Was Easy", was produced by legendary producer Rick Rubin. 

Their fame was fleeting but full of tragedy. Their original drummer Dimwit passed away from a drug overdose on September 27, 1994. Frank C. Starr was killed by a drunk driver while driving his motorcycle down Sunset Strip. 

Original Members: 1991: Nobody Said it was Easy Frank C. Starr, Dave Lizmi (lead guitar) Haggis (guitar, former bassist of The Cult and Zodiac Mindwarp when he went by the name of Kid Chaos), Ben Pape (bass) Ken 'Dimwit' Montgomery (drums)

Other Players

Ron Young (Vocals) Pharoah (bass) Chuck Biscuits (drums) Randy Cooke (Drums)

2) The HRSMN (aka The Four Horsemen) is an American hip hop group that has released one album entitled The Horsemen Project. The group is notable for successfully combining four of the most revered lyricists in hip hop, with a line up consisting of the platinum and gold selling artists, Canibus, Ras Kass, Killah Priest, and Kurupt. The name of the group is in reference to the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, who appear in the Book of Revelation from the Bible. The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse are traditionally named Pestilence, War, Famine, and Death. Throughout the HRSMN songs, there are many references to each of the members representing one of these entities. They have each frequently appeared on each of the members solo albums, such as Canibus's 2000 B.C. (Before Can-I-Bus) and Killah Priest's Priesthood. Other affiliated members include Chino XL [1] and Pharoahe Monch (who acted as the hype man on the leaked Im A Horseman (Promo) and also rapped on Horsemen from Canibus's 2000 B.C. (Before Can-I-Bus)).

3)The Four Horsemen, featuring Pat O'Day, were a music group that took 'A Dear John Letter' to #17 on the US pop charts in 1953. It turned out to be their only hit.

4) The Four Horsemen is the name of an online and DVD discussion between prominent atheists Christopher Hitchens, Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris and Daniel Dennett. (Taken from Wikipedia - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_four_horsemen)

5) The Four Horsemen is a Thrash Metal band from Montana.

6) A French Metallica tribute-band from Paris formed in 2003.

7) A Serbian tribute to Metallica formed in Belgrade.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Four+Horsemen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.