The Dead Lay Waiting were a metal band from Swindon, England.

Having formed in 2008 TDLW signed to Rising Records in 2009 releasing their debut album 'We Rise' in January 2010. Having performed at this years Download festival as well as being nominated by Kerrang and Metal Hammer for Best British Newcomer Band and Best Underground Band respectively, TDLW release their 2nd album. 'Almost Heaven' - A sixty-minute journey of blistering music, featuring the return of Barry Clayton, the voice behind the intro to the much acclaimed Iron Maiden's 'Number Of The Beast'. The album also features the bands first single/music video 'The Days I'm Gone' (#6 on the Scuzz TV Music playlist) On the back of various festival performances, such as Bloodstock 2008, Hammerfest 2009 Download 2010, plus support slots to bands such as Bleed From Within, Trigger The Bloodshed and Black Veil Brides, TDLW embark on their headlining UK/European tour during Sept-Oct.

Later this month Scuzz TV will be showing the band's very own Take-over and Guilty Pleasures programme, as well as playing a live lounge session on XFM Radio (UK's 2nd largest radio station).

On the 1st Nov 'Almost Heaven' will be released in the US and as such a tour to support the release is currently being considered.

In summary, despite their youth, TDLW intend to take their music to every corner of the globe.

The band consists of:
Luke Lucas - Lead Vocals
Steve Franklin - Guitar
Sam Sara -Bass/vocals
Ben Connett- Guitar/vocals
Tom Shrimpton- Drums

The full length debut album "We Rise" is out now worldwide!

Their 2nd album 'Almost Heaven' will be released 13th June. The Dead Lay Waiting were also nominated for a Golden God award for Best Underground Band.

in 2013 they released an EP titled 'Ascent of The Murder'

in October 2013 they announced they were no longer a band with frontman Luke Lucas planning on releasing a solo EP and the rest of the band forming a new band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Dead+Lay+Waiting">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.