The Slits was a British punk rock/post-punk/reggae band, formed in London 1976, originally all female led by Arianna Forster (aka Ari Up. It has had different lineups until the group disbanded after Ari's death 2010. Bass guitar player Tessa Pollitt also was a long time member. Hollie Cook – the daughter of Sex Pistols' drummer – joined the Slits 2005, and has now a successful solo carrier. Slits debut studio album Cut was released 1979 and their latest, Trapped Animal 2009.
-  -  -

The Slitz formed in 1976 in London, England. The original members, all female, were: Arianna Forster (aka Ari Up, Ari-Up & Madusa,  vocals), Paloma Romera (aka Palmolive, drums), Kate Korus (guitar) & Suzi Gutsy (bass). Viv Albertine & Tessa Pollitt would later replace Kate & Suzi. Pete Clarke (aka Budgie, formerly of Spitfire Boys & later to join Siouxsie and the Banshees), was the drummer when Palmolive left to join The Raincoats - then later Bruce Smith.

They released their first  album 'Cut' on Island Records in 1979, a Bootleg Retrospective on Rough Trade Y in 1980, and The Return Of The Giant Slits in 1981. Further releases since their initial split in 1981 are two sessions for the John Peel show released on Strange Fruit, In The Beginning: A Live Anthology 1977-1981, and Live At The Cibus Club. Ari Up, went on to help form, The New Age Steppers. The Slits have since reformed with original members Ari Up and Tessa Pollitt plus new members Hollie Cook  on keybooards, and Anna Schulte on drums, and guitarist No. The band toured widely and released another album, Return of the Giant Slits before breaking up in early 1982. Ari Up and Tessa Pollitt reformed the band with new members in 2005.  In October 2006 the EP Revenge Of The Killer Slits was issued and in October 2009 the well-received album Trapped Animal was released.

On Wednesday October 20th 2010 John Lydon's web site announced that, after a serious illness, Ari Up had died.

Sites: Wikipedia, Discogs and MusicBrainz <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Slits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.