There are multiple artists known as The Storm (five):

1. The Storm was an American rock group, formed in the Bay Area of San Francisco during the early 1990s. The band was also considered to be the second formation of Journey, since it featured three of Journey's former members (two of whom were founding members) - Gregg Rolie (keyboards, vocals), Ross Valory (bass), and Steve Smith (drums).

The Storm's lineup also included: Kevin Chalfant (lead vocals) and Josh Ramos (who cited Journey founder and guitarist Neal Schon as a major influence) as lead guitarist.

Rolie was the most instrumental in putting The Storm together. He had collaborated on material with Kevin Chalfant and sent the track Show Me The Way to producer Beau Hill, who was heavily involved with Interscope Records at the time.

Interscope became seriously interested in the project that had become The Storm by 1991 with Rolie and Smith fully involved. Josh Ramos was the last to join the fold.

The Storm's debut album, self-titled and released in 1991 by Interscope, was produced by Beau Hill. It rose to #3 on the Billboard Chart, scoring two radio-friendly hits in 1991 with I've Got a Lot to Learn About Love and Show Me the Way.

Their follow-up album, 1995's "Eye Of The Storm", was issued through the major UK independent label Music For Nations, was completed with the aid of session musicians drummer Ron Wikso of Foreigner and Bob Marlette. "Eye Of The Storm" did not fare as well as their debut CD.

The band underwent drastic personnel changes in the mid-1990's, with Valory and Smith departing to focus on the reformation of Journey, and Gregg Rolie leaving for a solo career. A new lineup featuring Chalfant is currently performing under the name Kevin Chalfant and The Storm.

2. A Hardcore Band from Pennsylvania, USA. 2006 They Released Their Debut "Relentless" on Inner Strength Records

3. The danish duo The Storm is Pernille Rosendahl (lead vocal, former Swan Lee) and Johan Wohlert (bass, Mew). Debutalbum: "Where The Storm Meets The Ground". Produced by Roy Thomas Baker (Queen, Smashing Pumpkins). Label: Universal.

4. The Storm hailed from Sevilla and were acclaimed by audiences and press reviewers as one of the best rock bands from Spain. The combo was formed by the Ruiz Geniz brothers (Angel and Diego, on guitar and drums respectively) plus Luis Genil (organ) and José Torres (bass). 

Their debut album, originally released on Basf in 1974, is one of the Crown jewells of Spanish hard rock, and changes hands for a small fortune among collectors all over the world, especially since its inclusion in Hans Pokora's 'Record Dreams' books. 

This LP really rocks. It's high energy hard rock that follows the line marked by the big organ outfits of the era: Deep Purple, Atomic Rooster, Bram Stoker, Megatón, a.o. It has also a deep classic prog sound root, which reaches the top on 'Un Señor Llamado Fernández De Córdoba'. 

5. Syracuse Hardcore. Members of Violent Side, Black SS and ex-Meltdown.
http://thestorm315.bandcamp.com
http://www.facebook.com/pages/The-Storm/195693333852632
http://twitter.com/#!/TheStormSYR <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Storm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.