The Legion of Hetheria is born in May 2002 as a gothic-symphonic metal band, with Rick (grunts, screams, clean vocals and guitar) and Jesus Loera (drums). After a short search for musicians, Harif (keyboards), Yosselin (female vocals) and Rashid (lead-guitar) were found, at that time, the band didn’t have a bass player, just guest musicians onstage. 

After a few months of composing and playing live gigs, the band starts recording their debut album “The Gate” which was released with many difficulties by themselves in July 2003, after this release, Yosselin leaves the band because of college, but then, Marivi (soprano) joins the band and records “The Gate” album again. 

In the beginning of 2004 the band plays they first mini-tour together with the dutch band After Forever and their popularity starts growing, a month later they make another 5 date-tour with the finnish band To/Die/For, with a great answer from all audiences, pushing T.L.O.H. to make a more extensive tour around Mexico, but now as headliners themselves (12 dates). Unfortunately, Rashid leaves the band after this minitour, and a new guitar player is found : Angel. Also during this tour, the band meets Alan (bass player) who joins the band in September. 

After the tour and with new band members, the band gets bigger in Mexico and starts working on new songs, with a little bit more aggressive but also more technical and catchy sounds, now combining also Rick’s classical tenor voice. In December 2004, the band gets to do 9 dates in Mexico with the dutch band EPICA, and even interacted one with the other onstage, making this tour the best way to end up 2004 for T.L.O.H. 

After this, Angel leaves the band because of personal reasons, and Said Padilla joins the band playing guitar. 

In January 2005, the band records a new demo CD containing 2 songs “The Ancient Ones” & “Der Hölle Rache (Mozart Tribute)” and also 1 song from The Gate album “Faith”, re-recorded and with new arrangements, this demo CD will be only used for labels, media, press and promoters. 

The Legion Of Hetheria is: 

Ricardo Loera García : Rythm and solo guitars, grunts, screams, clean and tenor vocals. 

Jesus Loera García: Drums and percussion. 

María Victoria Pérez Pérez : Soprano & choir. 

Harif Hinojosa Mejía : Synths. 

Alan Jassir Guarnero: Bass 

R. Said Padilla : Rythm guitars. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Legion+of+Hetheria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.