The Divining was formed in early 2003 by vocalist Domenic Rocco, guitarists Alex Cheskis and Jordan Berk, drummer Jeff Barow, and original bassist, Michael "Muff" Jenkins. The band recorded its first demo that spring and released it at their first show on May 31, 2003. Not long after, they released a second demo that showed vast improvement over the first and with that, the band hooked up with local independent label Dressed to Kill Records (USA) to release their first full length. "Reprisal" was released in June 2005 and was supported by a month-long, coast-to-coast tour of the US that summer and a tour of the east coast that winter. Some new material was also demoed that winter.

In April 2006, Muff decided to leave the band and was replaced by Lansdale, PA area native, Erik Pendergraft, who had been a fan of the band and quickly applied for the job. After being joined by Erik, the band embarked on another tour of the east coast with Florida death metal/hardcore act, "Lokyata". In August 2006, The Divining hooked up with friends One Dead Three Wounded for a short trip through the regional area where they were approached by newly-formed, NJ-based label, 1x1 Music. The Divining signed with 1x1 that winter to release their second album "Revelation of the Lost" which was recorded with Eric Rachel at Trax East (NJ) and Mike Cassel of Labyrinth Sound (NJ). Upon completion of the album but before it could be released, 1x1 Music went under when the company's owner engaged in unethical business practices that caused its funds to be frozen. Tour plans were put on hold indefinitely while the band and its members searched for plan B. During this downtime, the members worked to find jobs and finish school while continuing to write material and perform live on a less-frequent local level.

The band decided to move on in the summer of 2008 and played their final show on October 18, 2008. A demo of the bands final 3 songs, entitled "Last Call" was released at the show.

The Divining have shared the stage with Bleeding Through, Caliban, Sworn Enemy, Himsa, Haste the Day, Coalesce, Animosity, Full Blown Chaos, As Blood Runs Black, The Faceless, Scars of Tomorrow, 3 Inches of Blood, Arsis, Ion Dissonance, Death by Stereo, Blacklisted, The Minor Times, All Else Failed, Beneath the Massacre, August Burns Red, Emmure, and many others.


www.myspace.com/divining <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Divining">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.