There are two entities that may be tagged as "The Guardian".

1) The Guardian is a Belgian metal band, originating from Antwerp. 
The band was formed in 1997, when Luke Lambregts and Ronny Smeekens (the founding members) met and began arguing about what type of music they wanted the band to play, eventually joining forces and forming the Metal band 'The Guardian'.

Their focus was to produce high quality music with the appeal of a wide public and to also have a lot of fun while playing their songs. The Guardian knew which direction, musically speaking, would suit them best. Influenced most by the 80's heavy metal sound, they would tap into many metal resources while still keeping the while still keeping the signature ``Guardian`` style and presentation.

Finding other musicians to join the band with the same "Heart Of Metal" as Luke and Ronny proved to be an arduous task. Coincidentally, Luke discovered that one of his regular session guitarists, Palle Kesteloot, was a real 'shredder' and would be an ideal piece of TheGuardian puzzle… From then he was invited to rehearsals and shortly helped to improve in shaping the style and quality of The Guardian's music. Searching for a bass player with equal passions would continue to be a time consuming quest… Ronny bumped into Peter Claessens at yet another gig and discussed Peter's longing to play bass in a metal band…

The next logical step for the band would be to begin releasing albums of their original material. After three modest offerings, 1999's 'Imagination', 2000's 'Don't Want You' and the live recording from 2002 'Live at TEL18', The Guardian presents the metal world with 'Dragonland' in 2003, a fine release of power metal and hard rock weaved among traditional metal riffing. Each recording has been produced by the band alone in their own studio. In addition to their four releases, The Guardian has recently issued a video clip of fan favorite 'Dreaming' to be broadcasted on several Belgian television channels for promotional purposes. With the recent construction of The Guardian's official website, fans are very pleased to be able to communicate directly with the band members and have their opinions heard about very various topics.

The latest album they released was entitled 'Renovation', a suiting title as a new band member joined, namely Thomas Van Beeck. Thomas was added for his skills with the keyboard and his vocal 'grunting' but after a short time and some internal conflicts, the band announced that Luke Lambregts would be leaving the band and Thomas would be the new lead guitar player and singer.

Up till now, there hasn't been a replacement for the keyboard-player. Whether the band is looking for a replacement, remains to be seen.

Their official site is http://www.theguardian.be/

2) The Guardian is a British newspaper (originaly The Manchester Guardian).  A large number of podcasts are available on its website, hence its appearance here. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Guardian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.