There are several artists named The Source:

1) A Norwegian jazz band, founded in 1993. The band are known for their willingness to mix almost any conceivable style into one rhythmical melting pot.

To begin with, The Source consisted of Øyvind Brække on trombone, Trygve Seim on saxophone, Ingebrigt Håker Flaten on bass and Per Oddvar Johansen on drums. All four had studied jazz at the Trøndelag Music Conservatory - the only jazz education programme in Norway at the time.
The Source quickly gained a reputation as one of the most exiting bands on the Norwegian jazz scene.

In 1995, Ingebrigt decided to dedicate his attention to another group he was playing in, Element. Finally, Finn Guttormsen joined The Source on bass. After Finn left in 2005, the group were joined by Mats Eilertsen.


2 ) A UK male producer, John Truelove. The Source originally started out as an alias of unknown origin for Source Records's 1986 single release "You Got the Love", feat. Candi Staton. In 1989, DJ Eren, put Candi Staton's vocals over a track by Jamie Principle called "Your Love" which became a club hit. This was also released on a bootleg EP known as "Love/Rock". John Truelove then adopted the moniker himself and continued releasing records using the name. The mash-up - each time credited to The Source featuring Candi Staton - originally charted in 1991, reaching number 4 in the UK Singles Chart. However it was remixed and re-released again by Truelove using his Now Voyager moniker in 1997, reaching one spot higher at number 3. In 2006 it was remixed and re-released yet again, reaching number 7.


3) A thrash metal band from Greece, formed in 2007, their debut album is ''The Source''. The band is composed by: Makis (vocals), JB (guitar) and Tomek (drums).


4) A young American progressive rock band from the United States


5) A Hardcore producer from Sweden who released a few tracks for a netlabel called Sound Alliance from 1999 to 2002. He has changed his handle since there where just a few tracks scrobbled on Last.fm under 'The Source'. For newer stuff from him check on 'Platonist'.


6) A Trance project.


7) A young German rock band from the state of North Rhine-Westphalia


8) A pseudonym for Jahtari dub artists Soom T & Disrupt for their 2011 release, What Have I Done?


9) A progressive metal band based in Colorado, known for their 2016 album "Return to Nothing." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Source">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.