There are multiple artists with this name:

1) The Kingdom is a christian rock/worship band from Australia.

Widely acclaimed Christian Rock/Worship band, The Kingdom, have one collective desire – to bring a deeper revelation of God to the world. They don’t want people to simply ‘hear’ great music, but to be inspired to ‘action’ because of it. “We realize that it isn’t enough to just deliver amazing songs or lead an incredible worship time if the message doesn’t live beyond the meeting”. It’s for this reason that these five young leaders and musicians from Melbourne hunger to take their commission beyond the church walls.

Since the release of their debut album, Light Has Come, in September ’08, they have been honoured to bring their unique worship style to many churches & festivals across Australia including Easterfest, Blackstump and Riverfest. Their music has also received generous christian radio play across Australia. The album continues to impact the church throughout Australia and beyond. Tracks like ‘Alive’ and ‘Raining Down’ have become victory anthems even as titles like ‘Oh Most High’ & ‘Fill My Life’ have had great impact through worship. The band continues to be overwhelmed by God’s incredible grace on their lives and humbled by the mandate to draw people to Jesus through their music.

Within the last year there has been a real shift in their hearts and minds to challenge their comfort zone and stir up the faith to go beyond. “We have had the absolute privilege of bringing our music to so many different places and people. We want to explore more avenues for our music and message to ‘reach further’. ” Influenced by bands such as Delirious and Newsboys, their recent EP titled “Love Away” was created to introduce The Kingdom not only as a ‘praise and worship band’, but also a ‘mainstream’ contender. With singles Love Away and How It Was bridging their sound to wider appeal.

Their new hit single “Your Love is Forever”, together with the debut Music Video has taken the band to new heights, creating more fans than ever before. With new singles on the way, and international interest rising, The Kingdom is poised to be one of the biggest things to come from Australia!

Official Website: http://www.musicthekingdom.com/

2) The Kingdom is a indie rock band from USA. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Kingdom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.