There are several artists named "the Pack", including:

1: The Pack is Brandon "Lil B" McCartney, Damonte "Lil Uno" Johnson, Lloyd "Young L" Omadhebo, Keith "Stunnaman" Jenkins. Lil B attended El Cerrito High School, and Young L attended Albany High School. Lil Uno and Stunna attended Berkeley High School in Berkeley, California. They all recorded together for over a year at Young L's home studio where they released their first two mixtapes Pack Muzik Vol. 1 and Wolfpack Muzik Vol. 2. When Too $hort signed The Pack to Jive Records, they were all only around 17 years old.

2: The Pack emerged from the South London anarchist squat scene of 1978. The members were:
Kirk Brandon (later Theatre of Hate, Spear of Destiny, Dead Men Walking) on vocals, Rab Fae Beith (later UK Subs) on drums and the Canadian brothers Simon and Jonathan Werner (later The Straps) on guitar and bass. Their first gig was at the Camden Film Co-op.
Their music was a dark and menacing take on classic punk. Kirk Brandon’s vocals echoing those of Johnny Rotten, but with a visceral, sinister twist.
They released two singles. The first on the SS label in August 1979 had ‘Heathen’ on the A-side and ‘Brave New Soldiers’ on the B-side, both instant punk classics. SS stood for Secret Service as it was recorded in a recording van ‘borrowed’ from Stiff records with the help of Terry Razor. This was quickly followed by ‘King of Kings’ and ‘Number 12’ released on Rough Trade Records. By this time Rab Fae Beith had been replaced on drums by Jim Walker (later PIL).
The Pack’s short career acted as a bridgehead from the raw explosive energy of the early punk years to the new darker reality of depression hit 80’s Britain. They played their last sold out show at the 101 Club in Clapham.
Discography:
Heathen / Brave New Soldiers 7’’ (SS Label ‘79)
King of Kings 7’’ (Rough Trade ‘79)
Dead Ronin CD (Yeaah!)
S/T Cassette (Self Released)



3:  A punk rock band from Germany who released a self-titled LP in 1978. Included ex-Amon Düül II member Jörg Evers.

4.  Originally a 1960s garage band named Terry Knight and the Pack. Lead singer Terry Knight left for awhile in order to peruse a a solo career and The Pack continued to record and preform under the name "The Pack" as well as The Fabulous Pack without Knight. "The Pack"  would later be reborn as Grand Funk Railroad with ex-lead singer Terry Knight managing the GFR for awhile. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Pack">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.