The Sun of Weakness rose in 2003 by Flavio Scipione who, at first, persuaded Alessandro Cammilletti(vocals); then Maurizio (guitars) to be part of this project. At that time they played together in a death metal band yet, but in this situation they had to make something not so related to metal. The passion for gloomy and sad sonority of bands like Anathema, Novembre, Opeth and Katatonia, united all the three members, who, for the first time, attempted this contest giving birth, in three months only, to the first demo bearing the same name, with the help of a guest keyboarder, Martina. Incited by favourable critics received, the three decided to compose new songs for the following work, and to build up the band for live performances. However our men met with some changes of line- up: the departure of Maurizio and the yet- forewarned entry of the keyboarder Fabio, and, later, of the guitarist Alessio Mancini. With tihs line- up, the band began to compose new songs, and, in october/ november 2004 recorded the 2nd demo helped by Patrizio Serangeli(bass) as a guest, at first, then as an effective member. Finally in december the 2nd labour of the band was ready: 30 minutes of music recorded and mixed by the band itself in brand- new Weakness Studio of Flavio. In 2006 TSOW attempted the early live dates, while finished their new mini-cd "Landescape", recorded again by Flavio Scipione, but now mixed and mastered by Giuseppe Orlando (Novembre) in the well-known Outer Sound Studios in Rome. In September 2006 the band signed a deal with My Kingdom Music label, for their debut album "Trompe L'Oeil" out in September 2007 announced by the same label as a magic decadent “spleen”, melancholic and full of pathos in the vein of NOVEMBRE, A PERFECT CIRCLE, ANATHEMA, KATATONIA, TOOL. After the debut album Michele Armani joined the band as 2nd guitar, fundamental for the live performances. Out the Tracklist and the album cover "Trompe L'Oeil", out on Sept 21 for My Kingdom Music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Sun+of+Weakness">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.