The Rare Breed was a 1960's band composed of University of Florida students. They played mostly at fraternity parties and several college clubs in the area, the most famous one at the time was Dub's. The Rare Breed released 2 45rpm records back in the 1960s and one of the songs, "In the Night", made it to No. 1 in the area 
 
The Musicians
The musicians composing The Rare Breed, all University of Florida students, were the following: Guitars: Jim L. García (a lawyer in Texas) and Billy Carter (a retired Math teacher in Florida); Bass: Randy McDaniel (a professor at a university in Alabama); Drums: Paul McArthur (a home builder in Fla.); Organ: Ron Gauze (living in Texas and fixing VW’s); and, Lead Vocals: Randy Ratliff (working for US Post Office in central Florida). Other members of The Rare Breed and another band called The Playboys not pictured are: Sax, Flute, Electric Piano: Bryan K. Grigsby (newspaper photo editor in New Jersey); Lead Vocals and Guitar: Frank Birdsong (an architect in Georgia). The Rare Breed recording was recorded at Fuller Studios, Tampa, Fla. for D&B Records and released originally on the "Cool as a Moose" label. Also, in the recording were Gene Middleton, Linda Lyndell, and The Blues Kings, who were soul music performers that used to play with The Rare Breed in Gainesville, Fla. The managers of The Rare Breed were Dub Thomas, a local night club and gym owner (now deceased) and Bob Norris, a local disc jockey and record store owner (now deceased). 
The Rare Breed Top Songs

1. In the Night; 
2. I Need You;
3. Don't Blow Your Cool;
4. I talked to the Sun;
5. Before You Go;
6. Shadows on the Moon;
7. A Man Will Do Anything (with Gene Middleton);
8. Drip Drop #1 (with The Blues Kings);
9. Drip Drop # 2 (with The Blues Kings);
10. Let Me Call You Baby (with Linda Lyndell).  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Rare+Breed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.