There are multiple artist under the moniker "The Entity".

I) The Entity were a Melodic Metal / Gothic Metal band from Norway.
They were active from 2000-2003, only released a demo, a single and an EP.

II) The Entity is a melodic black metal act from Croatia. 

Biography (taken from MySpace - http://www.myspace.com/entitythe):

The Entity (or Tri-Entity) came to existance in November 2001. It was one week after my former band Red Zelenog Zmaja (Ordo Draconis Viridis) had been disbanded. I felt the need to continue the work of that band on my own, and with the blessings of the rest of the former members, I did. Bought myself a new computer (pentium III, oh lol….. all the songs that you can listen to here, were recorded on that!) and started exploring it's capabilities. Got myself quite a few relevant programs, in the field of music recording and sound editing (but nothing professional), and I started putting together the drum matrix for the first song – „Where darkness bears eternaly“. That song was played by my former bands (R.Z.Z. and V.C.A.), but it never got to be recorded. The equipment I used to record guitars, bass guitar and voice, would make you laugh your ass off .

Pleased with my very first attempt to record a full song, I started preparing the drum matrix for „Dragonmage“. I was so thrilled with the recording, that I had to do some damage to my home… just had to. I even asked my former drummer wether the drum matrix was too fast compared to when we played it on rehersals. He said, and I quote: „Naah… I can do even faster“. At that time he complimented my effort and started a project of his own – Mephisto.

Shortly after the recording of „Dragonmage“, I started recording „Lament of a wolf“. Again…. I just had to damage something in my home (it became a habit of a sort ). I also recorded an intro to the whole „album“ concept, that I later named after (what I belived) to be the best song on it – „Dragonmage“. Now, since I have considerable folk metal influences, I wanted to record something of my own folk stuff. Some will say, that the „Winds over Panonian plane“ has nothing to do with the rest of the songs, but, they would be wrong. If I played it with different arrangements (distorted guitar sound, drum matrix, screaming, etc….) it would be as blackish, as they come. For that song, I used a national instrument called „biernica“, a 5 stringed instrument that looks like a mini guitar. Alas, the instrument was old and had lost some of its sound clarity, so I was forced to use chorus/reverb on it. I think it came out really great. Some people asked me wether I played that on the keyboards, hehehe….

My last recording (in January-February 2003) was quite a turn….. to death/doom. No machinegun beats, no frenzy, just a very old melody (some 12 years old now….) and my will to finally put it to good use. „Warped illusions“ was, in lyrical sense, a kind of reflection on my past, my dreams and my desires. It is also a plea to those who care, not to forget that all of us have dreams and desires that keep us going, so that they may thread carefully and keep our trust and our faith in them. I created the mood arround the song, with rain samples, thundering, morbid echoing…., but what really made me record it was the upcoming birthday of my girlfriend. It was my gift to her. I haven't recorded anything since then… I felt empty… until a few months ago, when it just came to me – I miss playing…

It's 2007 now... and I'm ressurecting myself, and my project.... to whatever end there may be.

III) Alias of Noize Creator for his metalstep tunes.
http://www.discogs.com/artist/Entity%2C+The+%287%29 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Entity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.