The Isles is a group that’s had over a dozen members but never more than four at once.

Most of the recording has been in the dark, dingy basement of their headquarters, Action Jackson. The house stands in Long Island City and has hosted dozens of cultural events and rock shows including: Japanther, Miles Benjamin Anthony Robinson, Au Revoir Simone, Jeff Loui.
The name comes from the address (Jackson Ave) and the late 80’s super action movie starring Carl Weathers (Action Jackson).

The first release, Back to Terrific was recorded in the basement of AJ and released on Binder records in 2005. True South was featured in the PBS documentary The Education of Shelby Knox and Flying Under Cheap Kites then known simply as Fuck made it on the New York Noise Presents New City Sounds From The Underground Compilation (got censored as Fudge) and the video was in rotation on Channel 25. 

The first full length, Perfumed Lands was also recorded at AJ and took eight months of hard labor. The basement became known as the dungeon and tempers ran hot. Upon release on Melodic Records, Perfumed Lands was praised by major publications such as "The Guardian", "Magnet" and "NME". The songs were featured on various compilations, The Eve of the Battle video made it to MTV Europe and Perfumed Lands made the radio charts. The band toured for a month in Europe and was interviewed live on the BBC by Phil Jupitus.

On July 19th 2008, the group stepped into a commercial studio for the first time and began recording their third release, Troika. The album was written and demoed at home in the spring of 2008. Songs were often written on Monday, arranged on Tuesday and demoed over the weekend. The same spirit traveled to Excello studio where The Isles recorded for 21 days. The record was written and arranged by Andrew Geller, Turner Stough and Timothy McCoy; that is the reason for the title Troika, which refers to a governing body of three people (and also means 3 in Russian). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Isles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.