There are three artists with the name The Core:

1) The Core is a Norwegian jazz band founded in 1999. Known for their energetic stage performances. Jorgen Mathisen - saxphones, Erlend Slettevoll – piano,Steinar Raknes – bass, Espen Aalberg – drums

The Core is one of Norway’s most energetic and rough jazz bands at the moment. They have played at all the big jazz festivals in the country and been applauded loudly for their unique energy combined with their high quality skills. The music is rooted in acoustic modal jazz from the 60s, and The Core combines this music with more contemporary grooves rooted in funk and rock. The music is generous and lets the listener be part of a high-energy journey. It is also beautiful and sober. This, combined with extraordinary stage skills, makes the core something really special on the jazz scene today

A quote from a review of one of their concerts in Oslo, in October 2004, gives a good description of what to expect from this group, who made their first public performance in 2001: 

"The Core has everything that jazz should have: Energy, generosity and an unstoppable youthfulness giving the impression that each concert could be the last." 

The members of The Core comprise some of Norway's new leading jazz artists. The Core started in 1999 at the jazz academy in Trondheim, Norway. Here the quartet, consisting of Steinar Raknes on double bass, saxplayer Kjetil Møster, pianist Erlend Slettevoll and composer and drummer Espen Aalberg, musically fell in love. Having released three raved-about albums to date, they now arrive with their fourth, Office Essentials, at Jazzland.


2) The Core is a Norwegian indie band who writes songs of loss and misery, provocations and politics. An honest voice and ridden guitar for all the souls who were lost behind the mainstream eyes of capitalism.

3) A Hip hop group from the Twin Cities (Minneapolis & Saint Paul) composed of Toki Wright and AD (Adonis). The core acronym stands for, Children of Righteous Elevation. A new album entitled "Soul Searchin" is expected soon.  Their debut album is entitled "Metropolis". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Core">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.