The Senseless is the ongoing solo work of Berzerker member Sam Bean. The songs on the debut CD 'In The Realm of the Senseless' were worked on for anywhere up to ten years, and were first demoed during 2004. The original purpose of the demos were to be aural 'christmas card' gifts Sam could give to friends and bands he'd toured with. The project found its way to indie metal label Anticulture through Charles Provost of HIM Media. The Berzerker had completed an acrimonious tour with french band Happy Face, and Sam gave some demos to Happy Face via Charles. The debut album 'In the Realm of the Senseless' was recorded at Nashville Studios in Melbourne, Australia with Luke 'the Berzerker' Kenny and mastered by Russ Russell (Napalm Death, Dimmu Borgir, Evile). All performances were by Sam Bean, with additional guest performances provided by Ol Drake (Evile) and Matt Wilcock (ex-Akercocke). The debut album IN THE REALM OF THE SENSELESS was released May 21st 2007 which was coincidentally the same birthday as Sada Abe, the nutter japanese woman who the movie 'In the Realm of the Senses' was based on. 

This is for everyone wanting something a different to the usual grind.

Sam hooked up with Mithras drummer Leon Macey in 2008 and started work on the followup album THE FLOATING WORLD. They aimed to have it out in 2009 but Sam's relentless perfectionism has pushed the album back into 2010, with the lyrics and vocals alone taking a year to write and practice. It took Sam and Leon two years to rehearse the material to a level where they were to happy to record it. The band and Anticulture parted friendly ways, and The Senseless are now free and easy agents. The new material is a mix of the most extreme death metal, the happiest mainstream, with a dollop of punch-you-in-the-face punk, and has been described as "SYL and Morbid Angel sharing disco biscuits in a New Orleans backyard party with lots of fairy lights".

Extreme music, not necessarily for extreme people. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Senseless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.