In 2006, The Shadows Smile was created in the shadows of historical Boston, Massachusetts.  “Just Paint Your Face the Shadows Smile” is a lyric from the song “Burn” written by The Cure for the gothic cult classic “The Crow” starring the late great Brandon Lee.  Bubba Grimm (formerly of Immune, Discord X, and creator of the Johnny Strigoi project), founded The Shadows Smile in early 2006 and released the Memento Mori E.P.  Local, national and international music fans immediately took notice of the E.P,’s eclectic mix of Goth/Industrial sounds and driving metal guitars. Hauntingly dark lyrics address stories of historical injustices, and include pagan themes that separate The Shadows Smile from all other bands. Songs such as Memento Mori, Vampires Embrace, Tonight and T.S.S.’s cover of the Bauhaus Stigmata Martyr have been played on many internet radio stations such as Overload Coven Radio in Florida as well as the Louis Lestat Radio Show in California.  In May of 2006 Fr. Dracolupus (ex: 5th Quadrant guitarist), a close friend of Grimm’s was asked to join the band and, with little hesitation, he agreed.  A short time later Weeds, the younger sister of Grimm were recruited to play bass.  A week later Buttons (ex: Immune and Discord X guitarist), a long time friend and band mate of Grimm’s became the pre-programmed drum trigger man. The Shadows Smile is known for their high intensity and very creepy stage show.<br><br>
In the late summer of 2006 T.S.S. started thier on-stage careers in support of the already widely distributed Memento Mori E.P.  Within a span of a little under a year T.S.S. had played 27 shows in support of the E.P. T.S.S. played shows throughout Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York and Pennsylvania.  The Shadows Smile had also participated in the largely publicized Bodog Battle of the Bands, and the Emergenza Festival where they played The Paradise Rock Club in the state semi-finals.  On June 21, 2007, The Shadows Smile released there first self produced full length album entitled Ghosts of Olde New England.   Once again the album generated a lot of buzz for its unique sound.  Like the Memento Mori E.P., many songs from Ghosts of Olde New England were played on internet radio stations including the title track “The Crone”, “Welcome to Amityville” and “All Night,” which was played on internet radio in Portugal.  Before the end of 2007 The Shadows Smile had the privilege to play with bands such as Pennsylvania’s very own Carfax Abbey, Gothminister of Norway, and the legendary band The Misfits. In support of Ghosts of Olde New England T.S.S. played 16 shows between the release date of Ghosts of Olde New England and February 13, 2008. <br><br>
On February 27, 2009 The Shadows Smile will release Nosferatu: A Symphony Of Horrors. The Shadows Smile has come along way since their establishment, breaking genre barriers, having many fans in the gothic underground community as well as the metal community.  T.S.S. has always believed in one general fact:  that their fans come first. T.S.S. believes that fans should be treated with respect and reverence, which many bands don’t.  When asked, Grimm stated, “We don’t have fans, we have friends that support our music”.  The Shadows Smile is the voice that calls from the decayed tombs of our loved ones whom have passed on. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Shadows+Smile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.