There are multiple artists called The Burial.

1. Hardcore from New Zealand

2. The Burial were an Oi! band that incorporated ska, northern soul and folk influences into their music. Formed in 1981 in Yorkshire, England.

3. The Burial are a metal band from South Bend, IN, USA.
http://www.facebook.com/theburialin


2. They released one album, A Day On The Town in 1988, and worked with Bradford‘s anarchist rant-poet Nick Toczek on various projects under the name Britanarchists. They split in 1988.
Two of The Burial's earliest recordings, "Backstreet Child" and "I Just Can’t Forget", appear on the compilation album Oi! The Demos (80-83), whose liner notes describe the band as "the prototype Skacore band". They have three songs on the compilation Oi! of Sex — two as The Burial ("Old Mans Poison", "Friday Night") and one as Nick Toczek's Britanarchists ("Stiff With a Quiff"). Their song "Sheila" appears on the compilation The Sound of Oi!, and their song "Holding On" appears on Oi! Glorious Oi!.
Their sound is described in Spirit of ‘69 A Skinhead Bible as a "volatile Punk and Soul cocktail." In his article "Oi!: The Truth", Garry Bushell wrote: "Scarborough’s Burial cited Oi and 2-Tone as forebears and mixed the sounds of ska and rowdy bootboy punk in their set." A song by Bushell's band The Gonads, "Joys of Oi!", included the lyric "Burial at number one". i-D magazine described The Burial as "probably the first skinhead band to ever play ska". The band were regularly featured in the traditional skinhead fanzine Hard as Nails, and were described in Issue 4 as "Great Streetpunk hopes".


3. After several DIY tours and a release on Sancrosanct Records, The Burial are poised for solid growth with their Strike First debut The Winepress. The Burial plays finely executed metal inspired by Becoming the Archetype, Black Dahlia Murder, and Living Sacrifice. They have recently released an album titled "Lights and Perfections" on Facedown records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Burial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.