1. Power pop band based in Los Angeles during the late 70s, featuring guitarist Jack Lee, bassist Peter Case, and drummer Paul Collins. Their sound is fast, energetic and dynamic pop in the style of the Ramones, Romantics, 20/20 and Blondie, who covered the Nerves’ song ”Hanging On the Telephone.“

2. A three-piece rock band from Chicago, Illinois, in the late-90's and early 2000's featuring drummer Elliot Dicks, bassist Seth Skudrick (also backing vocals), and guitarist and vocalist Rob Datum. 

3. The Chicago-based Nerves (missing the preceding "the") began in 1997. According to their record label, Thrill Jockey Records, on which they released their first album, Nerves, in 1998, "they have been burning it up ever since. The music is pure Rock and Roll. They play short, frenetic sets that leave both band and audience gasping for air."   Chicago's Nerves released New Animal in 1998 and World of Gold in 2001.

1). THE NERVES (California): Jack Lee, Peter Case, and Paul Collins all composed songs and sang. They managed a national tour, including a few dates with The Ramones, but they lasted just a short time and self-released only one self-titled four-song EP in 1976, featuring the songs "Hanging on the Telephone" (Lee), "When You Find Out" (Case), "Give Me Some Time" (Lee), and "Working Too Hard" (Collins). The EP was distributed by independent Bomp! Records. According to his website, Paul Collins re-released The Nerves on vinyl and compact disc through Alive Records/Bomp Records in 2006.  Despite their limited lifespan and discography, The Nerves remain notable for many reasons. They were the founding vanguard of the LA pop scene that eventually produced The Knack and The Plimsouls. After The Nerves' break-up, Case and Collins formed The Breakaways with Pat Stengl, a group that would have an even shorter lifespan than The Nerves. Thereafter, however, Case and Collins went on to front more famous groups, The Plimsouls (who had a Billboard Top 100 hit with "A Million Miles Away") and The Beat, respectively. But perhaps the most notable legacy of the group is the song "Hanging on the Telephone": popular group Blondie later covered the song on their smash album Parallel Lines and turned it into a UK top 5 hit, and thanks to Blondie's success, the song has become something of a standard, later re-done by groups as diverse as L7, Def Leppard, and Cat Power (whose version was featured in Cingular commercials in 2006). It is likely some of these artists are unaware of the original Nerves version. (According to some sources, Blondie decided to cover the song after a trip to Japan. Someone slipped in a tape of The Nerves in their car's cassette deck and their Japanese driver, who didn't speak a word of English, started tapping along to the song on the steering wheel.) Blondie included a second Lee composition on Parallel Lines, "Will Anything Happen?" Lee also went on to write a hit for Paul Young, "Come Back and Stay".     "Hanging on the Telephone" and "When You Find Out" were later released on a 1993 Rhino Records power-pop compilation, DIY: Come Out and Play - American Power Pop I (1975-1978), which the All Music Guide gave the full five stars (review). The Nerves also had the honor of appearing on the album's cover. More recently, Rhino included an unreleased Nerves track, Case's "One-Way Ticket", on the 2005 compilation Children of Nuggets (AllMusic Review), a sequel to their popular Nuggets compilations. Today, Paul Collins performs songs from both The Nerves and The Beat in his band Paul Collins' Beat, who continues to tour and record new material
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=R0XIKXIKBds
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=emy5mA8Ixtc <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Nerves">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.