The Jealous Sound was an emo band formed in Los Angeles, California, USA. Members are vocalist and guitarist Blair Shehan (ex-Knapsack), guitarist Pedro Benito (ex-Sunday's Best), bassist John McGinnis, and drummer Adam Wade. Their first album The Jealous Sound EP was released in 2000. In 2003 they shopped around their demos for a follow-up to their 2000 release The Jealous Sound EP and were set to release an album on Mojo Records. Soon after their signing, Mojo parted ways with Universal leaving them without a distribution deal. Shuffled over to Mojo/Jive and with little interest in the band they decided to leave the label and return to Better Looking Records to record Kill Them With Kindness with producer Tim O'Heir. In 2005 they announced via their website that they had signed to The Militia Group for their follow-up to 2003's Kill Them With Kindness which is to be produced again by Tim O'Heir. The official band website has not been updated since 2005, and rumor has spread that lead singer Blair Shehan has decided to quit the band. Variations on the rumor say that he has given up performing music. However, on June 1, 2006, the band posted a blog on their MySpace, commenting that work on their upcoming LP for The Militia Group is progressing.  The band released their second EP, Got Friends, on iTunes on October 14, 2008.

On February 13, 2009, the band posted the a blog, entitled "There is hope for us...." on their Myspace page with a short message promising more from the band soon. "Thank you all for standing by our side.... We will post something with a little more detail soon. Promise. Love, The Jealous Sound."[3] Another blog post confirmed on June 24, 2009 that the band would accompany Sunny Day Real Estate on their 2009 reunion tour.

Since this time, the band's activity rocketed into the public space again, with the announcement of a new album. This was accompanied by a sporadically updated blog featuring updates on the recording sessions.[4] The band announced that they have been joined by friends Nate Mendel of Foo Fighters to play bass and Bob Penn of CoCo B's to play drums on the new album. Part of Mendell's involvement secured them a year of recording and writing in the Foo Fighter's personal studio.

In October 2011, singer Blair Shehan announced that the new album is to be called "A Gentle Reminder" and it will be released in January 2012. This was followed by an official announcement on the band's Facebook page.[5] In anticipation of the release, the band released a new song called "Your Eyes Were Shining" via Soundcloud.[6]

The band headed out on a short promotion tour in December 2011 and promised a full tour in 2012.

A Gentle Reminder was released on January 31st 2012; the album picks up where Kill Them With Kindness left off, not straying too far from the Midwest emo/indie sound that defined the band on their debut full-length but still refining it along the way. 

Following a long period of inactivity, on March 29th 2017 singer Blair Shehan announced via their Facebook page that The Jealous Sound are finished, and that a new band called Racquet Club had been formed consisting of himself and drummer Bob Penn, along with Sergie Loobkoff of Samian/Knapsack and Ian Smith. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Jealous+Sound">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.