Lineup:
Pasi Askolin - Guitars
Pablo Moilanen - Drums
Otto Närhi - Drums (Beyond The dream )
Ari Kauppinen - Vocals (SaraLee)
Jani Viitala  - Guitar (Exlife)
Anssi Laukkarinen - Bass
                                     
http://www.themythofautumn.com/

The Myth of Autumn is a melodic groove metal band based in Jyväskylä in the central Finland. Founded in the beginning of the century for the urge to play and to record some demo scetches the two founding members Ari Kauppinen (vocals) and Pasi Askolin (guitar) had made the guys gathered a group to fill this mission. During their soon 10 year journey the line up of the band has changed quite a few times and also the musical style of the group has gone through a series of revisions. Yet the strong melodic content which has always been the corner stone of their music since the very beginning hasn’t been lost on the way. 

The music of The Myth of Autumn combines various influences from different sorts of metal all the way from hardcore to trash as well as more pop like flavours. The band doesn’t try hide the influence from their idols but their music as a whole is still something way more than just copying the originals. The thunder-like drumming and guitar-riff-based songs merge with the strong and catchy melodies served by keyboards and vocals creating an entity which can only be discribed with one term: The Myth of Autumn. Music also contains ”a little taste from the north”, something very finnish on how the elements of the music react with each other. And the whole thing is crowned with a strong and personal singer whose performance goes all the way from fragile and clear to powerful death metal grunt. 

As we speak The Myth of Autumn is finishing their debut album which introduces the results of the ten year evolution the band has gone through. Besides the strong musical content one of their biggest strenght is how the band works as a unit, a perfectly working machine that grinds its way to the listeners head, yet never losing the natural spirit and organic pulse that´s long been lost in the 21st century heavier music scene. The Myth of Autumn is absolutely at their best when seen live as the tight playing their music deserves is combined with the energetic performance on the stage. As the album is due to be released during the late 2011 the band has already booked a few gigs starting from july. So if you want to check out the new material, visit the bands website and see the dates and venues near you.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Myth+Of+Autumn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.