You might know Devon Graves from the Alt-Metal band Deadsoul Tribe - or you might be more familiar with his real name, Buddy Lackey. He spent 11 years working as front man, singer-flute player for one of the original prog-metal bands, Psychotic Waltz.

Throughout the journeys of touring with Deadsoul Tribe Devon met many musicians who really stood above the crowd. One day he began to wonder: “What would it be like to play in a band made of the very finest players I have met along the way?”

So like Dr. Frankenstein did, by sewing the greatest, strongest pieces of the greatest strongest men and then adding a sick and demented brain to create his monster, so it is the same with Devon’s creation of his monster THE SHADOW THEORY who are featuring some of the finest musicians that Devon could possibly gather:

Demi Scott - Keyboards
Arne Schuppner - Guitar (from the German prog-thrash metal band Complex 7)
Kristoffer Gildenlöw - Bass (Dial, formerly Pain Of Salvation)
Johanne James - Drums (Threshold, Kyrbgrinder)

Four years in the making, THE SHADOW THEORY will be releasing their first studio album on Devon’s long time home InsideOut Music. “Behind the Black Veil” is a sinister roller-coaster ride of sound and lyrical imagery combining elements of Thrash, Psychedelic and Symphonic Metal fused with Folk and Prog-Rock undertones. Devon’s first “concept album” ever, tells a horror story of a man who wakes from one nightmare into another, into another until he can no longer tell where the dream ends and reality begins… Or if he was ever dreaming at all.

THE SHADOW THEORY’s “Behind the Black Veil”, both frightening and compelling is sure to be a standout amongst the vast myriad of music releases this year. THE SHADOW THEORY will be a touring band and is already looking into possible touring in early 2011.

Check out, “The Sound Of Flies”, a 1st song by visiting THE SHADOW THEORY on MySpace:http://www.myspace.com/theshadowtheoryofficial <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Shadow+Theory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.