There are 5 groups named The Regime:

1. The Regime (a.k.a. The Smoke-A-Lot Regime or Regime Dragon Gang) are a gangsta rap group created by rapper Yukmouth of The Luniz in 1997 and originally included fellow rappers Tech N9ne, Phats Bossi, Madmax, Poppa LQ, and Govnormatic. Not long after the original formation, rappers Gonzoe of rap group Kausion and Lil' Ke also joined. The group was named as a result of old Hitler movies viewed by Yukmouth in which Hitler's army was referred to as "The Regime" or "The Hitler Regime". The logo for the group is a silhouette of a dragon inspired by Yukmouth's love of dragons and old Bruce Lee movies. The dragon logo also doubles as the logo for Yukmouth's label Smoke-A-Lot Records, which incidentally, The Regime are currently signed to as a group. The Regime is unique when it comes to rap groups in that the members are from different states and cities around the U.S. yet come together to make music and money. Besides guest appearances on numerous Yukmouth related projects, the group has released three acclaimed mixtapes entitled "All Out War Volume. 1", "All Out War Volume. 2" and "All Out War Volume. 3" and plan to release their debut album Regime Dragon Gang.

2. The Regime is a punk rock trio from San Diego, CA, formed in 2009. The band consists of vocalist/guitarist Todd Allen, vocalist/bassist Kenny Hill and drummer Ricky Schmidt. They released their Twenty Ten EP on July 2010, and are currently mixing their upcoming, and so far untitled, album.

3. The Regime was a US thrash/power metal band from St. Paul, Minnesota notable for opening for Pantera during their "Vulgar Display of Power" era. This band has since split up.

4. The Regime were a baroque pop group from Bath, UK who were active between 1966 and 1970.

5. The Regime is a funk/disco collective of 14-21 individuals from Sydney's inner west. Their debut album "‎If it is, it is! Isn't it?" was released in August 2019. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Regime">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.