There are two bands who go by this name. One is the Heavy Metal band from Queens, New York, started in 2003.
The other is a Heavy Metal band from Zagreb,Croatia, started in September 2005(Bio at end)

<-The Last Alliance from New York->

The Last Alliance started out as a quintet known as "Batteries Not Included" in a local high school in June of 2003. At this time, the band consisted of only John Ryan amongst fellow school mates. He and several of his friends were sitting in the band room bored out of their skulls and decided to get on their respective instruments lying around and jam. They knew they had something immediately and decided to make a band out of it. The Line up consisted of John Ryan (Guitar/ Vocals), John Marchetta( Drums), Steve McGrath (Guitar), and Eweld Giron (Guitar). 

They entered the Halloween "Battle of the Bands" Competition after being joined by Guitarist Jonathan Ledesma. His talents proved to be more than enough as Eweld had quit weeks before the show and things looked terrible. They did pull off the show but their ranks shattered soon after as John M. left leaving three guitarists to themselves. 

There they stood in stalemate and isolation, 3 guitarists wandering from one productiveness practice to another. Eventually, Steve gave in and helped us all by switching to the Bass letting them become a true trio. 

In October of 2004, we were joined by the massive talents of Richard Quatrano and finally felt like a whole. However, the bands hardships were not over as unforeseen circumstances forced Rich to part ways with them and take up his other project "The Last Word" Full time taking Steve with him in May 2005. 

Fortunately for the band, the nigh unstoppable Peter Gozzi signed on as our full time drummer soon after and the band started to mend the pieces of a full fledged band. Peter was truly a breath of fresh air to our group as they've progressed from being a punk/grunge cover band to finding their voices in heavy metal and finally finding their place focusing on a sound more in tune with Classic and European Power Metal. 

In February of 2007, Bassist Vinnie "TwigZ" Moscato joined the band, finally completing the band. This lead the the current lineup we see today of John Ryan(Guitar/Vocals), Jonathan Ledesma(Guitar), Peter Gozzi(Drums), and Vinnie Moscato(bass). The band proceeded to book shows in the New York Area.

On June 23rd, 2007, The band played their first show with their current lineup, opening the second day of The Brooklyn Metalfest. Currently the band is set to record a new EP this summer, as well as a few more shows.

<- The Last Alliance from Croatia->

Started In September 2005 by guitarist Ivan Gabela and drummer Jan Rešetić,later joined by bass player Matija Kuffner(who,with Jan,designed the idea of a Tolkien based heavy metal band). First official practices of the band started in April 2006 when the members were Ivan Gabela,Matija Kuffner,Jura Mlakar(rythm guitar) and Jan Rešetić.

After 2 months,when the rest of the band realized that Jura was not their kind of guitar player,they kicked him out and brought Leo Grbac(Jan's childhood friend) as the rythm guitar.

Everything was working fine,fantastic actually. But one day Ivan was struck by the idea of him being to bad for the band and he leaves the band on short notice.This struck the remaining trio like thunder,and left them stunned for a while.That happened in October 2006).

But that didn't kill their spirit.The band soon started playing as a trio and Matija was the singer.After seeing that they were not moving from no man's land,they decided to take another guitar player.
His name is Edo Coronelli,and he is a friend of Leo.

The Band soon started playing covers(metallica,manowar,saxon,blind guradian...),but there was a problem.

Matija's voice is great,but his throat is a pain in the ***,and he could sing 2-3 songs and after that would die^^.

So the band took in a singer,named Davor Bušljeta(aka Bubreg/Kamenac).
That happened in December 2006.The line-up has not changed from then.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Last+Alliance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.