Joshua Craig hails from Boston, Massachusetts . His beginnings as a guitarist were in the projects' "Black Art" and "FiNGeR" (for which each situation involved three releases). Joshua Composed, Produced, Sang and played Guitar on all releases between 1994 - 1997.

In 1998, Joshua moved to Los Angeles, California to begin his career as a Songwriter / Producer and Session Musician. Having worked with the likes of Rob Halford, Coolio, Xzibit, Motograter, Christina Aguilera as well as members of Fear Factory, Testament, KISS, White Zombie, Whitesnake, Megadeth, Flotsam & Jetsam, Adema, Murderdolls, Fight, Methods Of Mayhem, Stuck Mojo, Halford, Powerman 5000 and Cypress Hill to name a few, Joshua needed to begin making his own signature mark in music. -Enter Joshua Craig's "THE ALIEN BLAKK".

"THE ALIEN BLAKK" is a predominantly instrumental project that features many different facets of Joshua's many sides and styles of unfiltered creativity. The music is described as a frenetic mix of Frank Zappa meets Meshuggah. The styles range from Metal, Latin-Jazz, Country, Rock, Classical then back to a wall of Acoustically Composed Arrangements. All music on "Modes Of Alienation" was Produced, Written, Arranged and recorded in 3 diffrent locations by Joshua Craig and was mixed at Steve Vai's "The Mothership" recording studio by Joshua Craig. -Only the ear can describe.

A regular on the pages of esteemed magazines Guitar World, Guitar Player and Guitar One, Craig's musical prowess has spawn multiple lines of signature products and accessories (available at www.THEALIENBLAKK.com & www.JOSHUACRAIGPODOLSKY.com ). The playing on the debut release from Joshua Craig's "THE ALIEN BLAKK" entitled "Modes Of Alienation" are helped on the rhythm section by bassist David Ellefson and drummer Craig Nielsen and is set for release in March 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Alien+Blakk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.