There is more than one artist with this name:

1) The Spectacle was a hardcore punk band from Bodø, Norway. They had a truly unique sound, combining elements from many of the most powerful and passionate subgenres of hardcore and other types of music, from heavy crust to emotional hardcore to long Godspeed You! Black Emperor-style instrumental passages. A strong anti-capitalist message could be found in their lyrics, and the band released albums through the anarchist CrimethInc. Ex-Workers’ Collective. The band took their name from the book «La Société du spectacle» by situationist theorist, Guy Debord.

The band consisted of Endre Njøs (guitar), Torbjørn Hafnor (guitar/vocals), Jørgen Larsen (guitar/percussion), Andreas Bakkemo (vocals), Martin Bowitz (bass/vocals), Kjetil Jensen (drums). They existed from 2000 to 2006. During their existance they toured Europe three times and the United States once. Connected to strong DIY-ideals they put out the records themselves on their own label Smart Patrol Records.

In April 2007, Phil Elverum (of Mt Eerie) re-released The Spectacle's album "Rope or Guillotine" on vinyl with hand silk-screened covers. More information about the release is available at http://www.pwelverumandsun.com/store/

Members from The Spectacle later continued in bands such as Beyond The Fences, Lukestar, Cold Mailman, Kollwitz and The Well in Hell.


2) The Spectacle is a metal band from Texas, US.
www.thespectacle.org www.myspace.com/thespectacleband

3) The Specatacle was a West Coast indie rock band, led by guitarist/vocalist Blake Miller best known for his work with Moving Units. They released a full length album called "Glow in the Dark Soul". The Spectacle was previously known as The Cherry Smash whom released a 7 inch single and made an appearance on the Pure Spun Sugar compilation.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Spectacle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.