The Saturnine

“A collective is as strong as its individual components” - It all started back in 2004 when 5 like-minded musicians came together and decided to make the music they wanted to make. No showing off their technical abilities, but songs with dynamics and atmosphere, melancholy and heart-felt lyrics. Pure expression cannot be bound by musical genres or other people’s expectations. This is real!

2004 Saw the unification of Daeonia’s songwriter and guitar player Eric Hazebroek (also: Stream of Passion) together with Sun Caged drummer Dennis Leeflang (also: Bumblefoot) and Daeonia’s bass player Douwe de Wilde. The collective was soon complimented by guitar player Edo v/d Kolk and vocalist extraordinaire Sander v/d Thillart. Their debut EP, “Within Without”, was released in the Summer of 2004, after which Dennis left for New York. The band continued on and played several high profile shows with After Forever, The Gathering, Katatonia, Fates Warning, Enchant, and many others. Their debut became an instead success, and there were high hopes for the band.

After several line-up changes, the band saw their pending doom arise in August 2007. Eric was about to pull the plug when former drummer Dennis came back into the fold. The Saturnine went back to the beginning and decided to record a second EP, “The Winter Years”, with a different line-up. Edo had left the band at that time to resurface in Kingfisher Sky. His place was taken by Danny Tunker (God Dethroned, Prostitute Disfigurement).

At the end of 2008 the band was rejoined by vocalist Sander. The band played several shows in this line-up, which were received with open arms. They have been working silently on new songs since. Soon the return of The Saturnine will crash upon us in its full glory. Stepping out of the shadows once more. They have returned!

Sander: Vocals
Eric:   Guitars
Danny:    Guitars
Douwe:  Bass
Dennis: Drums

Homepage:   http://www.thesaturnine.nl/

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Saturnine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.