There are numerous bands called The Awakened.

1 - An American Hardcore band that existed in the early 2000s

2 - An American Mid-West Metal band.

3 - A British rock band, about which the information below is.

The Awakened formed in 2006 when 4 budding musicians and 1 street bum got together and jammed a few tunes that they'd been working on individually. After a few months practice and polishing, a collective known as The Awakened then started to take the music out on the road... (or at least into the local pub gig scene.)

Things were only interrupted briefly at the start of 2007 by the unexpected loss of the previous bassist and drummer.

The guys played some fantastic dates in their time together. In addition to playing at the legendary Mean Fiddler in July ’07, reaching the finals of "Emergenza" - a world wide Battle of the Bands event, The Awakened played all over South London regularly whilst together. Though venturing north of the river occasionally also offered some amazing gigs. These included; The Purple Turtle (Camden) and The Bar Academy (Islington).

Prior to the feisty, no prisoner demolishing of the Mean Fiddler, The Awakened were busy writing and recording new tracks for an EP that could be added to the material from the winter 2006 demo "One Eye on the Window".

As well as further new tunes, the tracks “Built in a Day” and “The Following” off of the “From the Ashes” CD, showed The Awakened in a more creative light and went down a storm at live shows, proving to be favourites amongst the crowds and fans and living up to expectations on the CD. 

Shortly before the band broke up in 2010 , band vocalist Dave Bushell left the band, leaving guitarist Tony Harvey to take over vocals towards the end of the bands active period. 

In 2010 the band recorded their final (and also untitled) EP in Valencia, Spain. It was shortly after their return to the UK that news of the band breaking up emerged. 

Free tracks can be downloaded at their offical website, www.theawakened.co.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Awakened">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.