THE HERETIC ORDER are a brand new exciting classic metal sounding beast influenced by the likes of Mercyful Fate, Black Sabbath, Dio, Motörhead, and Angel Witch, with pagan and satanic philosophies thrown in for good measure, predicating good humour, peace and love to all. 

The Heretic Order brings an ever evolving twist of evil rock ‘n’ roll and shock metal to the British metal scene, all in the good name of the fallen angel.

The band was born in the year of the beast 2014, in gloomy London. 

The story began at the beginning of 2013, when Breed 77 guitarist Danny Felice, aka Lord Ragnar Wagner, started composing classic heavy metal songs inspired by his long love of classic 70’s and 80’s metal and his obsession with 1970’s Hammer House of Horror movies. 

With a vision of taking to the stage an ultimate classic heavy metal band that would incorporate theatrics with a powerful combination of searing riffs with blistering solos, the band bring a larger than life attitude by providing great entertainment to the modern and classic metal audiences of nowadays, and so revive the metal scene and have a hell of a time in the process. 

Experienced musicians were needed; bring forth former ex-Breed 77 bassist Stuart Cavilla, aka Rotted Skull, to the fold, followed by Ernie Nogara, aka Evil E, ex-Savage Messiah on drums, and completing the line-up axe-slinger  Marcel Contreras Chalk. aka  Count Marcel La Vey, from Brit metallers Affluenza, thus the Order was ready for business.

Last year the band finished recording their debut album Will Maya (the Answer, Breed 77 and Adrian Smith to name a few) and produced by Lord Ragnar himself.

Metal Hammer online premiered their Hammer House of Horror inspired debut video clip "Burn Witch Burn" prior to their Bloodstock performance to a very good reception from the metal fans.

Having just signed with the renowned German record company Massacre Records, the time is nye to unleash their debut album "All Hail the Order" to the world.
(Album is pencilled to be released Sept 2015)

On the live front, The Order played their debut gig Black Easter Sunday 20th April 2014, as special guests, at the London Metal to the Masses band competition, stirring a massive response on their Facebook page which culminated in being invited to play what was a very successful set at last year’s prestigious Bloodstock Festival (Megadeth, Saxon, Amon Amarth), on Sunday 10th August, on the Jagermeister stage. 

With a stack load of gigs already confirmed, including a slot at Hammerfest VII?, on the 14th March 2015 (Kamelot, Candelmass, Hell, Angel Witch), the beginning is setting up to be bright and exciting.
Join their list of minions now you will be converted.

All HAIL THE ORDER! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Heretic+Order">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.