Paulo Curado: alto saxophone
Rodrigo Amado: baritone saxophone
Steve Swell: trombone
Ken Filiano: bass
Lou Grassi: drums






WHAT IT IS 
The Implicate Order is a recording project focusing on experimental soundscapes. The resulting pieces range from ambient and melodic experiments to extreme noise sculptures. They are created with a blend of organic and virtual sound sources including original instrumentations and sound constructions, and often include field and improvised room recordings, as well as sounds of the media and of the world itself. Computers are often a last resort in the recording process, as the initial intent is to create a sound as organic, analog, and unique as it is electronic... the result is a hypnotic, meditative, dark, mysterious, and often lo-fi sound. 

WHERE THEY COME FROM
Justin Bennett is a drummer, percussionist, and all around electronic noise maker/composer who currently works with Skinny Puppy, My Life With The Thrill Kill Kult, and Bahntier. Others he's worked with in the past include Peter Murphy, Rozz Williams, Professional Murder Music, Pigface, EXP, and Penal Colony to name a few. 
Paris has worked with innumerable bands and performers, including Involution (with Cevin Key of Skinny Puppy), Shadow Project, Christian Death, Sex Gang Children, as well as being the mastermind behind EXP and Face. 
el clon devoted time to developing his own electronic sound and mastering his musical and programming skills at the university level. He currently produces a beautifully unique ambient music as a solo artist.

HOW IT CAME TOGETHER 
Justin and el clon have been experimenting with sound together since the early 1990's when they played in the industrial band Sick. They recorded their first ambient experimental pieces as a side project during this time (a habit that would eventually lead to The Implicate Order ten years later...) In 1994 Justin and Paris met when they joined industrial project Penal Colony for a US tour. Justin then joined Paris's Los Angeles experimental troupe EXP, which released a self-titled full length on Triple X records in 1996. Later Paris and Justin recorded as the ambient abstract group Face, which released A Picture of End on Tone Casualties Records in 1997. They also spent time working together in the live bands for both Rozz Williams and Gitane Demone's solo outings. Justin and el clon reunited and started recording experimental pieces again in the late 1990's along with Paris and The Implicate Order unfolded...

The Implicate Order is proudly independent and free of corporate involvement. All the music collections are self-produced and distributed only via the internet. If you enjoy our sounds, please support us and this trend of non-corporate music and artistry by ordering The Implicate Order CD's. Cd's are available below for mail-order or as digital downloads. Thank you so much for your support! 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Implicate+Order">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.