THE A-SIDES ARE:
Jon Barthmus – Lead Vocals, Guitar, Keys
Mike Fleming – Lead Bass, Backing Vocals
Patrick Marsceill – Drums, Percussion, Backing Vocals
Charlie Cottone – Guitar, Backing Vocals
Christopher Doyle – Keys, Guitar, Percussion

THE A-SIDES “SILVER STORMS” was released September 2007

The A-Sides are a five piece band based in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, who formed in 2002. Their demo caught the attention of a label from Scranton, PA called Prison Jazz Records, who put out the band’s first release, a 7 inch single. They went into the studio and recorded their first full length album entitled Hello, Hello under the production of Brian McTear (Mazarin, Matt Pond PA, Capitol Years, Hail Social, etc.) The album is filled with vaguely familiar-sounding pop anthems with influences that bounce around from the Beach Boys to My Bloody Valentine, Phil Spector to XTC. It's densely layered pop brilliance for the 21st century.
Since the album's release in April of 2005, The A-Sides have been racking up excellent on-line and print reviews, including multi-page spreads in Philadelphia Weekly and an article in Magnet Magazine. Their music is being played on alternative rock/college radio stations across the country and is in daily rotation on XM and Sirius Satellite radio. One of their songs appears on a Cornerstone compilation CD alongside such bands as Oasis, The Tears and Louis XIV.
The A-Sides have had licensing companies clamoring to use their music on TV and in films, including a spot on Vans’/Hard Rock “Let it Ride BMX Jam,” as well as usage on the global Adidas website. They have also penned a blanket licensing agreement with MTV, landing their songs on several shows, on the 2006 MTV Movie Awards and earning them a profile on MTV.com.
The band has played live extensively and toured; performing with acts such as British Sea Power, The National, Enon, Phosphorescent, Islands, We Are Scientists, Mazarin, Man Man, Doug Gillard (from Guided by Voices), and The French Kicks. The band has also played sold out shows at venues such as The Mercury Lounge in NYC and the Khyber and Trocadero in Philadelphia. They have also recently been hand picked to open for Cheap Trick, the Flaming Lips and Phoenix.
Adding members and exploring territory that no one short of the musicians themselves would have guessed, The A-Sides have morphed into a 3-ring circus of melodic rock goodness. What does the future hold for The A-Sides? The boys have big plans for your ears — including a new album entitled “Silver Storms” released in September 2007 and lots of new tour dates to be announced this fall. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+A-Sides">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.