THE ORDHER was created around April 2005, after the end of two big Brazilian acts, REBAELLIUN and NEPHASTH. Fabio Lentino (vox/bass), Mauricio Weimar (drums/percussion) and Fabiano Penna (guitars) started the band as a project, which quickly became their main work. Their previous bands had a successful career in the underground Metal scene, with the bands playing European and Brazilian tours (shared the stage with bands such as HATE ETERNAL, CANNIBAL CORPSE, DEICIDE, BEHEMOTH, KRISIUN and VADER…), with albums released and well received among the fans all over the world and a promising future. With the end of these bands, THE ORDHER became reality and their man goal. 

After a few months only rehearsing and writing stuff, band started to record and produce some music. Between July and August ’06 they recorded their official demo containing 3 songs: “Rise”, “The Poison” and “Father”. The stuff, so called “Promo ‘06”, was widely promoted on the web thru their website www.theordher.com and myspace official page www.myspace.com/theorderextreme , got a good response from the fans all over the world and finally gave the band a 2 albums deal with the American label Unique Leader Records. 

In early 2007 the band recorded “Weaponize”, THE ORDHER’s debut album, that was released in October ’07. The album got a good response from mags and webzines all over the world, especially in Brazil, what put the band finally on the road. After some shows, in early 2008 Mauricio Weimar left the band for personal reasons, and so Cassio Canto, an ex student of Mauricio, replaced him. A few weeks later THE ORDHER starts a Brazilian tour as support act for the American legend POSSESSED, in some of the main cities in the country. A couple of weeks later they play in one of the biggest Metal festivals in Brazil, FORCAOS, with KRISIUN, and some more gigs followed.  During the tour, they unleashed the videoclip of the song ‘Rise’, that shows the original line-up playing live in their hometown. At that time, “Weaponize” was released in Poland as a CD bouns of the local magazine Thrash ‘Em All, which meant 5000 copies all over the country.

In March ’09 the band recorded a MOTORHEAD coversong: “Them Not Me” was the first recording with the new line-up, and was promoted only in the web. Right after this, THE ORDHER started to record the new album “Kill The Betrayers”, with release date set for September ’09. New album comes faster and more punishing and a great follow up to their debut “Weaponize”, with ear catching tempo changes, progressive oriented guitar leads and strong refrains. Right before the album release, THE ORDHER was confirmed on the Funeral Nation Tour, their first attack in Europe. Band was invited to support VADER and MARDUK over 9 European countries to promote their new album and finally start to build a fan base overseas.

On April 14th, 2011 Fabiano Penna announced The Ordher's split-up. According to him, the members will continue their side projects.

Line-up:
Fabio Lentino (vox/bass)
Fabiano Penna (guitars)
Cássio Canto (drums/percussion)

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Ordher">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.