There is more than one band with the name "The Jones."

The Jones -- Sunderland, England -- In the beginning there was HDQ… HDQ were one of the finest punk bands to come out of the North East in the late Eighties. Releasing some classic albums, they also featured a certain guitarist by the name of Dickie Hammond, who was also playing for Leatherface at the time. HDQ split and Leatherface went on to become probably the greatest punk band of their time. When Leatherface split Dickie went off and formed Doctor Bison with his old mates from the ABs (old friends from HDQ days) and they released two albums. Then Leatherface reformed and Dickie played for them again for a little while. In between this he got together with a few mates in Sunderland and they formed a part time band by the name of Stokoe, and recorded one single for Mother Stoat. The band took their name as tribute to Bob Stokoe the legendary Sunderland F.C. manager of the Seventies, who guided the club to their famous FA cup victory in 1973, and the front cover features Bob Stokoe after the game. The rear cover is an aerial shot of the old stadium Roker park. The nucleus of Stokoe was Dickie Hammond and Golly, the singer from HDQ. Eventually we get to The Jones… The Jones were originally formed as Fatty Jones at the beginning of 1999 by Dickie Hammond and Richie Glover, once in the Abs, and then in Dub War. Andy was quickly recruited on drums and there was one option for a vocalist and Golly was called in. They recorded their debut single for Mother Stoat in 2000. The name got shortened to The Jones and then they released a fantastic album, Gravity Blues, on Boss Tuneage.

The Jones -- from Leeds, UK -- are Kris Jones (vocals, guitar), Kev Jones (guitar), Adam Jones (guitar, vocals), Jono Jones (bass), and Mike Jones (drums). The Jones was formed in Leeds, UK, by singer Kris Jones and guitarist Kev Jones after meeting at a Shaun Ryder gig. From there they went on to become the main songwriters of the band. The Jones have recently teamed up with producers Will Jackson (Music/ Embrace/Kaiser Chiefs/Pigeon Detectives) and Matt Elliss (The Glitterati, Honeyz ) for production on their album. Some of their songs include "In My Head," "Only One Way," "Room 1235" and "Killer Killer," which was featured as a popular pick on the Hype Machine and broadcast to a worldwide audience. More information can be found at http://www.myspace.com/thejonesofficial.

The Jones -- from Washington, DC, USA -- are singer/guitarist Mike Greenberg, bassist/singer Rich Russman, and drummer/singer George Belton. The blue/rock hybrid band started in 2005 and counts The Rolling Stones, Guns N' Roses, and Nirvana among their influences. Their songs include "Jukebox Junkie," "Hard Rain," and "You Don't Have the Stones." More information can be found at http://www.myspace.com/thejonesmusic.

The Jones -- from Los Angeles, California, USA -- are an indie rock band with songs that include "Incident on Prosser Ave" and "Lincolnstein." More information can be found at http://www.myspace.com/thejones.

The Jones--Christian Rock Band from Bismarck, ND, USA.  Members are Chris Lippert/Lead Vocals and Guitar, Jessica Fretty/Keyboards, Corey Carson/Bass, Zoe Bohlen/Drums.  The Jones sound like Lifehouse, Goo Goo Dolls, Hootie and the Blowfish. Our first EP entitled "Hello" can be found on Itunes, Amazon, CD Baby, and our website.  For booking info contact us:  thejoneslive@bis.midco.net
visit our website: www.thejonesonline.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Jones">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.