The Holloways were an indie rock band which formed in London, England in 2004 and much to fans dismay, split in 2011.
The band's final line-up consisted of David "Alfie" Jackson (vocals, guitar), Bryn Fowler (bass) and Edwin Harris (drums). The Holloways, having a rest after touring the UK 2010. Alfie, (see pix) chanced his arm on DJ deck's and span some funky tunes & shook a leg-with 7'3' fine artist Pandemonia, at Zoe Griffin Christmas bash at 5 star Montcalm Hotel, Marble Arch, London. Mr Jackson  music choice, had the likes of actress Nikki Sanderson, Dynamo mr music magic himself, Baby D, Miss Frank, Prince Cassius, Amy Studt, Heaven Sent Thugs, singer Lula, Scott Cornwall, celebrity personal trainer Shaun Stafford, life coach Ali Campbell and world record breaker Michael Perham, whooping it up. Sept their performing at FashArt Charity Gala dinner at the Natural History Museum in aid of Caudwell Children.
The previous shows earlier this year were Sun, 04 Jul Cazfest Bishops Stortford, 09 July The Box Crewefirst, Sat 10 July Boots Feel Good Festival in aid of Macmillan Cancer Support at Boots HQ, Thane Road, Beeston, following on from their stage appearance 2010 was on 27 Feb, at "Lets Rock Cancer" at Leadmill, Sheffield, DJd at Camden Lock's Proud venue for the fund raiser for homeless charity "Shelter" and to raise the profile of the campaign to save the BBC 6 Music station, that's earmarked by Corporation bosses for the chop, and played a gig at The Dirty South, Lewisham on 1 April to a packed house. The guys are ready to follow up 2009 tour-that closed with 36 gig UK tour in Nov/Dec, that was spread over 5 weeks, plus the extra dates, when they accompanied the band Shed7 on 7 out of 10 dates of Shed's tour, finishing on 22 Dec.
On 2009 tour, they performed and promoted their new album "No Smoke, No Mirrors".   Prior to their UK tour, the guys have recorded and released their video of single "Jukebox".  They appeared once on Big Brother Little brother and were asked back a second time for the eviction night.  All in all the band are excited after their successful tour in Britain playing their new material from their Album as well as classic Holloways anthems to very enthusiastic audiences.
They appeared once on Big Brother Little brother and were asked back a second time for the eviction night.  All in all the band are excited after their successful tour in Britain playing their new material from their Album as well as classic Holloways anthems to very enthusiastic audiences.   Full Biog
Feeling reborn is a rare treat; but The Holloways resilience in recent times has led to what feels like a rebirth. Reaping such a rare reward was the first step along the clear path that now lies ahead for a band who once again have much to smile about; not that The Holloways had stopped smiling - not for very long anyway. "The sun doesn't always shine" is one of the band’s phrases to live by; along with "everything happens for a reason”.

In the early months of 2009, Alfie and Bryn were busy recording additional new material to kick-start the year.  By April they decided to start actively seeking new members and as luck would have it, in the very first rehearsal they found guitarist Mike Baker, who - after playing just one song with the band - had done enough for Alfie and Bryn to make up their mind. The following day Edwin Harris set up his drums and did a quick warm up and before even playing a song, the decision again, was easy.  Luck had clearly swung back in The Holloways’ favour and a new lease of life took the boys into the studio for a couple of hectic weeks before doing a few gigs and recording 3 brand new songs and they’re back doing what they do best - playing music.  

2008 had been soul destroying for the band. Much conspired to prevent full scale releases of the exciting new material recorded at the legendary Sawmills Studio. The biggest setback was the long, drawn out legal battle across the pond involving their stateside former label TVT. 
The darkest hour before the dawn came in December with a lot of smoke as The Holloways' home - Nambucca - caught fire. Much was lost in the fire - practically everything. This was the final straw for Dave and Rob who felt the end had come with nothing seeming to go the band's way. However, the founding members - Alfie and Bryn - felt the previous 3 years of good fortune by far outweighed the 12 months of bad fortune; and having weathered the storm, they concluded "2009 has to be good. Yin and yang and all that." - The sun doesn't always shine indeed. 

The Holloways had an exciting start to life with the critically acclaimed debut - "So This Is Great Britain?” - and 2007 saw the band storm sold out shows across the UK with singles Dance Floor, Generator and Two Left Feet pumping on the radio airwaves. 
Now, the energy and the bond in the band has seen the boys enjoy an intense schedule which is already relighting many fires ahead of the release of the new album – No Smoke, No Mirrors – which is due for a September release.
Everyone is massively excited for the summer schedule; the boys will be back on the road gigging the brand new set featuring songs from the forthcoming album alongside the classic Holloways favourites.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Holloways">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.