An eerie calmness echoes through the wind, the dust starts to settle…a beacon of light begins to shine through the darkness, and out of that five men whose lives have been greatly changed by wars waged by humanity emerge with a story to tell. It’s been 65 years since the world saw its end to one of the greatest wars ever waged, WWII. The aftermath in which would send ripples of confrontations throughout and into the next century. In 2001 two towers fell to terrorism forever changing life as we know it. Fast-forward to 2003…America invades Iraq leaving the world in yet another questionable state of security. It should be as of no surprise to why these events share a common bond with The Hand of Glory whose members are comprised of Germans and Americans. Having two of its members deployed in Iraq when the war began, and three members who have seen the history of their country go through two great wars and a wall that separated the east from the west. Music has often inspired change and breathed hope into the lungs of societies, yet in these turbulent times when wars and rumors of wars are emerging and our ecosystem is being pushed to the brink one must ask themselves when will this end? Just see how two nations that were once at war with each other 65 years ago, are now having its citizens making music together, sharing a common bond through art and expressionism, and striving for change. One can see the irony behind this story surely and the positive outcome that has come into fruition.

The Hand of Glory brings you music that blends death metal, hardcore, and traditional metal into one harmonic burst of sound and energy. It all began in the winter months of 2005 when four friends living overseas Germany, decided that it was time to bring their creation into existence and for the rest of the world to witness. They began writing new material that winter and played their first show in July 2005 at an open-air festival in Hanau, Germany. Attention was given promptly to the band best known for their explosive live act on stage. With having the attraction of local promoters, more shows followed soon after. The Hand of Glory recorded their own 3-song demo in the spirit of DIY and began passing out copies at all of their shows. Word of mouth traveled quickly and by October 2006 the band was taking their show on the road with a mini tour around Germany. After returning from that tour the band took some time off to begin writing new material. They went into the studio early 2009 to record their full length debut album with producer Sky Van Hoff of (Machinemade God, Caliban). By November The Hand of Glory found itself sharing the stage with Slayer, Trivium, and Amon Amarth. After the band had played that show founder/vocalist Tom Hayes had finally decided it was time to leave the band so that he could provide a better commitment towards his family. With the band beginning to pick up momentum and notoriety surely losing their singer wasn’t anything to scoff at. However, without missing a beat The Hand of Glory picked up their new front man John Morton. In the autumn months of 2009 the band entered the studio once again to finish their highly anticipated album. Thus The Hand of Glory brings you their debut album titled “Break The Illusion” as a testimonial to the unfolding events at present day. The band has been busy since the completion of their album with a heavy touring schedule that has shot past the 100th show mark with filling local venues of 200+ people and have been on stage supporting Sepultura, Summerblast Festival w/ Caliban, Bleeding Through, Evergreen Terrace, Rock Area Festival w/Entombed, Napalm Death, Cro-Mags and many more.

Armed with a solid line-up and a clear message of change….we do not believe that it should take a nations borders or what type of goods that a country can export to ensure its nations people of what types of freedoms they can or cannot have. Every man, woman, and child are born into this world as a free spirit…regardless of borders, natural resources, race, color, creed, sex, or any other means of exploiting mother earth and its delicate balance. And yet the human condition continually tries to overpower that very sense of being in life. Having seen the ravages of war and our way of living being overly consumed by greed, there has got to be a point in which the tides turn. Haven’t events in the past taught us anything? Or are we so complacent as to think that history won’t repeat itself again? We must break the illusion that overshadows our way of living….WE MUST MOVE FORWARD!!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Hand+Of+Glory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.