There is more than one band with the name The Slugs:


1) The Slugs are a four-piece Chicago-area band that has played guitar-led pop music in the vein of Big Star and Cheap Trick since 1983. The band has featured brothers Gregg and Dag Juhlin, in addition to other members.

2) Punk band from NYC in the late 70s, short lived. Released two 7"'s "Problem Child" / "Suspicion" (Whiplash, 1979) and "I'm In Love With You (Again)" / "Never Shoulda Told You" (Whiplash, 1980) 

3)This band was the brainchild of Jimmy Bower, Kirk Windstein, and Todd Strange to “Tune low and play slow”. Formed out of the ashes of SHELL SHOCK, AFTERSHOCK and WREQUIEM, vocalist/guitarist Kirk Windstein and drummer Jimmy Bower would have many drunken nights talking about their love of CARNIVORE, THE MELVINS, TROUBLE and THE OBSSESSED and how they wanted to have a band that played like that. The New Orleans scene wasn’t ready for what hit them when these two put their heads together. It was the antithesis of what was happening at the time in New Orleans . A lot of bands were mimicking the local heroes EXHORDER and GRAVEYARD RODEO, but Kirk and Jimmy went the other way and played their tunes very slow and were drenched with feedback. The band also featured Kevin Noonan (CROWBAR/KILLJOY) on guitar for the first few gigs before being replaced by “Lurch”, who played with them when they did a cover of “Predator” by CARNIVORE and “No Quarter” by ZEPPELIN at Storyville Jazz Hall in New Orleans. Jimmy Bower had formed EHG, which was a dirtier version of THE SLUGS and was about to move to Atlanta, Georgia for a while. Kirk wanted to continue with the band and asked GRAVEYARD RODEO drummer Wayne Fabra to lend a helping hand so the band could continue. “Lurch” left the band and was replaced by Travis a guitarist from Oklahoma. The band played a few shows with this line up and made one recording, then slowly fizzled. Kirk broke up the band and was even considering joining EXHORDER as their bassist because EXHORDER were having a problem finding a replacement for Andy. But things happen for a reason…GODFLESH rolled through town that same week and Kirk went to the show and was inspired to get another version of his band back together after hearing those heavy slow tunes through the PA system at Guitar Alley. Kirk and Todd Strange maintained their loyalty to the slow movement and went to a MOONCRIKITS show a few weeks later to scout out their drummer Craig Nunemacher at a gig at the Howlin’ Wolf when it was still in Metairie. Incidentally, the band had an open jam session during their set Kevin Noonan, who use to play in THE SLUGS was jamming out some old tunes with Craig behind the kit. Kirk and Todd looked at each other and said, “Let’s get both of them”. Kirk and Todd introduced their songs and a pair of “Sears Hair Clippers” to Craig and Kevin, which made them look like homeless escaped convicts from Angola State Prison. This line up would later rename them selves CROWBAR, after getting the idea from their friend Derrick, aka “Adolph” and perform for the first time under that moniker at a show at the State Palace Theater in New Orleans that I happen to be the promoter for. And the rest is history…Cheers from Thunder Tyrant. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Slugs">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.