facebook | bandcamp | bandzone.cz | Rising Nemesis Records
Genre: technical brutal death metal | technical death metal | brutal death metal
Hometown: Zvolen, Slovakia
Record Label: Rising Nemesis Records

Band
Ondrej Mészáros :: Guitar | Vocals
Jakub Miškovič :: Vocals
Mišík Berky :: Bass | Vocals
Martinus Sukhoi :: Guitar 
Peter Koľak Krištofory :: Drums

Biography
The beginning of The Infinite Within is dated back to the spring of 2010, when the core two members met, and through the years found another technically skilled members to pursue the goal of becoming one of the technical brutal death metal bands as those that we so much idolized (mainly US technical death metal scene). In autumn of 2011 band recorded 4 song demo entitled Mercurial Blood. The band shared stage with VADER in spring of 2013 during the Back to the Black tour. In summer 2013 band played Gothoom Extreme core terror festival along with Decrepit Birth, Hate and White Chapel. To this date band played as many as 20 shows in Czech republic and Slovakia. From beginning of 2013 band recorded and mixed debut album which is now on final mastering stage at Imperial Mastering run by Colin Davis of Vile. 

All hail death metal !!! !m!

Description
The infinite within je vyjadrením mysle ako nekonečna.

The infinite within je analógia spojitého kontinua vesmíru v čase a priestore a ľudskej mysli ako súčasti jeho spontánneho poriadku. Tri percentá využívanej kapacity neuronálnych sietí mozgu stačia, aby myseľ abstraktno-deduktívnou a kompozitívnou metódou poznávala transcendentálne spontánne poriadky. Aby poznávala sama seba a identifikovala sa ako kontinuálny spontánny poriadok, ako súčasť vesmíru. Z funkčného hľadiska je základnou súčasťou samoregulácie spontánneho poriadku deterministický chaos, ktorý predstavuje jeho spätnú väzbu. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Infinite+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.