There are three bands using the name The Tracks

1) Glasgow based soul rock band The Tracks thetracks who own the copyright to the band name and not to be confused with 

2) the tracks are a four-piece indie rock band based in Manchester, North West England.  Download their latest mini-album from http://thetracks.bandcamp.com.

"A bit Strokes, a bit Jesus and Mary Chain.  I like it a lot."  
Clint Boon - XFM Manchester

 “The Tracks may be holed up in Chorlton but their chord strikes are certainly memorable.  Sounding something like the Velvet Underground, bits of glam, shoegazing and urban country all seem present, with hints of the Jesus and Mary Chain.  A breath of fresh air, even if they do look over their shoulder at the twilight sounds of the alternative eighties.” 
Manchestermusic.co.uk

Sometimes letting someone else in on the secret can be a dangerous step.  And, being fiercely protective of their sound, the kind of step that The Tracks had previously been unwilling to take, preferring to self-produce all of their previous three EPs.  These EPs resulted in some of the band’s best work, including the dark groove of Beautiful Me, Beautiful You, the euphoric release of It Doesn’t Matter, the thundering Statement of Intent and the edge-of-the-world howl of Resistance Is Down.  But sometimes, letting the right person in can be the vital step to reaching a new level. 

It was with this in mind that The Tracks entered The Loudhailer studios in November 2009, to embark on recording two new tracks.  On entering the studios only one track had a name, but the band had already introduced the tunes to the live set.  The performances had gone down well so the band were hopeful that, with the help of producer Deni’s objective ear, these recordings would show a new complexity to the band’s sound.

Come January 2010 and the tracks were finished, had names and, most importantly, sounded fantastic.  The hard work put in the studio had paid off, and Deni had captured the sound just as the band hoped.  “Left Unsaid” represented something new for The Tracks:  not quite a ballad, but a definite change of pace, both inward-looking and challenging the accepted view of reality.  It builds steadily through its four minutes, driven by the bass and drums, to a soaring climax that refuses to give simple answers.  “No Turning Back” was the more upbeat track, with a driving verse that throws questions at war, death, and identity, before segueing into a soaring chorus that seems to tell us the answer is simply to dance with the one you love.

So, an unqualified success and now it’s back to the live stage.  Now Chorlton-based, the current four piece line-up has been together since January 2008, performing mainly in Manchester city centre venues such as Night & Day, Dry Bar and the Roadhouse, as well as in Chorlton, Stretford and Leeds.  2010 will see the band making their first appearance in London at the start of February, before hitting the Manchester circuit again, starting with a first appearance at the Aftershow later in the same month.  With yet more new material being readied, the year 2010 promises to be the band’s best yet.

3) An LA-based indie rock band who have so far released two albums in 2018 and 2022. Frontman Venancio Bermudez, bassist Felipe Contreras, drummer Jimmy Conde, and guitarist Johnny Santana united over their shared love of rock & roll and are the latest act to contribute to the rich history of Chicano bands, playing music that is directly influenced by their background growing up as the children of undocumented immigrants in East LA. Their music recalls the defiant optimism of working class bands that came before them and their sound reminds us to find the joy in dancing to loud music as the ultimate form of rebellion. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Tracks">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.