Throughout the existence of man there have been a vast number of figures and institutions that have individually and collectively challenged the status quo. Individuals such as Aldous Huxley, Yevgeny Zamyatin, and Friedrich Nietzsche have all shared the same sense of outrage towards ignorance and social injustice. Actively conveying their common discontent to those around them, these few have made way for a number of the social advancements that many relish in today. Hailing from the northwestern corner of Connecticut, The Perennial welcomes the same expressions of discontent.

The Perennial is comprised of five individuals who are seeking to play only the heaviest music they can, while retaining the professionalism, creativity, and integrity that they find lacking in today's heavy music scene. Its founding members, guitarists Adam Sahlin and Dave Woltmann, both of the now defunct On Paths Of Torment, bear a history with several years of playing various forms of aggressive music together. Values of tactful instrumentation teamed with contemplative songwriting are held common among all members, including bassist Matt Sottile. Marco Corsino, former guitarist for Shallow Water Grave, fills the vocalist role. The lineup is completed with drummer Bobby Burns, who has played previously with The Horror Story. Focusing on a number of different socio-political issues, the band's lyrical content has developed far beyond that of previous projects in both ardency and purpose. The Perennial puts forward an inherently aggressive sound that is genuine enough to attract the most die-hard of the metal community, but simultaneously interweaves the raw energy of hardcore.

In mid 2008, The Perennial began working with recording engineer Jeffery Weed at Sonic Environments in Bloomfield, CT. The self-produced, self-released, "The Disparagement Of Indifference" EP was made available on May 30th, 2008, and went on to receive a number of positive reviews. Keeping up a driving pace, The Perennial returned to Sonic Environments and put out their second self-produced, self-released EP on July 1st, 2009 entitled, "Dissension". This three song EP was released in a strictly digital format, and is available now for free download.

The Perennial has played with many established acts such as Engineer, The Minor Times, Life In Your Way, Trap Them, North, The Breathing Process, Signs Of Hope, She Rides, Voyager, Giant, Rosetta, and The Miles Between. With a strong focus on a sonically and visually impressive live show, The Perennial is determined to bring their music and live performance to as many ears and eyes as possible. By continuously challenging their listeners' minds both musically and lyrically, The Perennial is able to preserve its standing in the forthcoming turn of contemporary heavy music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Perennial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.