There are two artists sharing the name The Rapture:
1. The Rapture is an American rock band formed in 1998.
2) The Rapture is British keyboardist, recording engineer and producer Stuart Lynch. 
(for the Finnish death/doom band, see Rapture)

1)The Rapture is an American rock band formed in San Francisco. The band mixes influences of post-punk, dance-punk, acid house, disco, electronica, and more.
The Rapture formed in 1998 by drummer Vito Roccoforte and guitarist/vocalist Luke Jenner. After relocating to New York, the original bassist left and was replaced by Matt Safer. The band toured extensively and in 2001 released the six-song EP Out of the Races and Onto the Tracks on Sub Pop Records. The Rapture were forerunners of the post-punk revival that was taking place in the early 2000s. Multi-instrumentalist Gabriel Andruzzi joined the band in 2002. Their first full-length record, Echoes, was released to critical acclaim in 2003.
In January 2004, the Rapture acted as main support to Funeral for a Friend on the NME Awards Tour, alongside other burgeoning acts Franz Ferdinand and The Von Bondies. Later that year, the band toured on the main stage of the Curiosa Festival alongside Interpol, Scarling, Mogwai, Cursive, The Cooper Temple Clause, Head Automatica, and their own idols, The Cure.
The Rapture announced the completion of their second full-length album, Pieces of the People We Love, which was released on Universal Motown Records in September 2006. Paul Epworth, Ewan Pearson and Danger Mouse produced the album.
Their fourth album In the Grace Of Your Love Love was released on September 6, 2011 following a five year hiatus during which Jenner attended church regularly and sang in its choir. His ecclesiastical experiences influenced his songwriting and such songs as the first single "How Deep Is Your Love?" were his interpretation of gospel music. (How Deep Is Your Love Songfacts).
Phoenix  producer/Cassius member Philippe Zdar produced the record, which the Rapture recorded in Brooklyn and Paris.
In 2014, a press release for the Red Bull Music Academy tribute to  William Onyeabor  featured  Luke Jenner  as one of the acts participating. In the press release, Jenner was tagged with the brackets "formerly of The Rapture." It was confirmed by Jonathan Galkin, manager of DFA records, that the band had split. The band reunited in 2019 without bassist Matt Safer.

2)The Rapture is British keyboardist, recording engineer and producer Stuart Lynch.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Rapture">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.