1.) 80's female fronted punk band from New York.  They released  ep 'Dread in NY''' in 1983.

2.) In the distant year 1992 in Magadan, the Lust guitarist Yan started a thrash-metal band called "Distimiya", later renamed into "Dissector" which existed till early 2002. Yan was the only band member who decided to go on. He moved to St. Petersburg where he met Igor Anochin and joined Igor's band "Inside". But after rehearsals of the band's album material, Igor decided to work with his death-black metal side-progect "Tartharia" with other musicians. Yan and other band members of Inside (bass player Andy and drummer Leon) started a studio goth'n'roll progect called "Last Embrace", in which Igor also played as the second guitar player for some time. The band's vocalist was found right before the recordings of the band's demo "Dead-End Love". Mirla sang in two original songs - Dead-End Love and Don't Promise. Michael Jackson's cover, the song Give In To Me was sang by the former Tearfall vocalist and keyboard player Alex. Last Embrace recorded and mixed the material in Finnish Astia studio with the sound producer Anssi Kippo. Mika Jussila from Finnvox Studios mastered the recording. In spring 2004 The Lust's first album Tangled was released through Russian FONO label. The line-up changed a bit: drummer Leon left the band, and Vlad replaced him; also keyboard player Max joined the band. In the beggining of the summer 2004 the new album (My Dear Emptiness) recordings begin, The Lust sign the contract with a greek label SLeaszy Rider records. On January 20, 2005, My Dear Emptiness was released in Europe. M.D.E. gets from 7 to 10 in different magazine reviews, and German Rock Hard magazine gives it the "Prime" status! In the summer the band had already prepared the material for the new album, which was titled Membrane... 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Lust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.