THE MARCH OF SEASONS were established in June 2006 after Cris, Emo and Fat finally left The Axal. After a few days, these 3 guys, friends from time immemorial, got in touch with Barcode, ex bass player within “Idiots First” and “Eulogy For The Death” who took Spano as guitar player. Spano and Barcode officially joined the band, therefore it was complete. After just one month of studio sessions, they were present at Summer Explosion festival taken in Verona where they learnt their line-up was truly completed and with high potentialities. Finally the band found its own harmony as a team which worked well together, both sides, human and artistically, in a good harmony. Since that time they started a fierce composition which led them to write two new songs within a few months. They suddenly decided to enter the recording studios to record these two famous tracks to let them be know by publishing them within their myspace profile. “Just Afraid” and “September”, those track titles, are a mix of scremo and metalcore with some injection of melody which had great success and brought them to play in various venues in Italy also to make themselves work together well. They finally found their own dimension on stage and became a solid and united band from every point of view. Already working with The Axal, in the meantime Graves Records was watching over the new-born band and set their eyes on the quintet by keeping up with both live activity and their image. Like all the Graves Records productions, the record label got on good terms with the band members, establishing a good friendship, mutual esteem and trust which is the foundation for a steady professional team arranged by The March of Seasons until the spring of 2007, when they decided to record their first full length production of “My Winter”: “This record can be defined like an illogical building of lost illusions with a cemetery view. A sad melancholy and angry sight of the reality which is around us. Sensations which are stressed by the howls that cross the strong and intense melodies created by the masterly guitars phrasing within a rhythmic cadence marked by drums and bass which beat hard, in a way which makes the bands message clear and more vivid” Even during the recording, “The March of Seasons” worked close to their label guys making perfect harmony. The result is a cd of 12 tracks of pure power and technology, innovative enough for its type which aims to get a place between the Italian and European metal/hardcore scene. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+March+Of+Seasons">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.