The Night Game is a 2017 musical project started by Boys Like Girls front man Martin Johnson. Martin teased fans heavily with the possibility of new music and a new band by giving discrete locations of where he would be performing including photos captioned with "show in Los Angeles tonight" etc. from March 17th-22nd before opening an account titled the "thenightgame". Martin officially announced the project on April 12th through his personal Instagram account, with the post stating "Been working on this for quite some time. Excited to share. please let me know what you think." while including the band's handle and Spotify link to listen to their debut single "The Outfield." The band played their first show at El Cid Restaurant located in Silver Lake, Los Angeles. on March 18th. The single quickly caught the attention of popular musician John Mayer.  This lead the band to announce on May 3rd that they would be the opening act on the first half of  Mayer's "The Search For Everything Tour" starting on July 18th in Albuquerque, New Mexico and concluding on August 16th in Raleigh, North Carolina. The band announced on May 6th through their official social media accounts that they will be also performing a string of headlining shows on May 16th, 24th, and 26th including dates in Los Angeles, New York, and Brooklyn. The same day John Mayer posted a photo of talking about their debut single by saying "I heard this song. Then I listened again to make sure I heard what I thought I had. (Yep.) Then I asked them to open up for half the upcoming summer shows. This is that stuff we listen to new music for." ⚡️🙏🏼⚡️#thenightgame @thenightgame. The post helped the band miraculously gain attention with them gaining almost 4,000 followers overnight, bringing them to a total of almost 5,000. Martin confirmed that the project has been in the works for at least 13 months.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Night+Game">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.