axe.digispherium.com

Early Years

The band has a long musical history with the projects leading to its creation starting as early as 1991 by the two brothers Georgy Georgiev and Rosen Georgiev. The initial project was called A.X.E. and was started in Montana, Bulgaria. It underwent a lot of line-up using session members from a lot of the other metal and rock bands in the city.

2001-2004

In 2001 the band changed their name from A.X.E. to The A.X.E. Project and recorded their debut album Stories From A Twilight Realm Pt.I, which was released by the band themselves and marketed trough their website. The CD features 9 original songs and its radio single Mountain Queen, featuring both male and female vocal performances, received serious radio play in the radio stations from the area, which helped the band establish themselves. The release was supported by a few gigs in the band's hometown. Additionally it received a 7/10 review from Pro-Rock Magazine.

2005-2009

In the beginning of 2006 the band was ready with their next work - the demo EP Angles Without Wings, which is still not released to the public in order to aid the band in getting a record deal. What followed was getting the band on stage and their first appearance on stage since 2003 came in January 2007 when the band opened up for Evergrey and Stonegard in their shows in Sofia and Plovdiv. More live shows and media appearances followed with the band visiting cities like Montana and Varna and playing two international open air festivals - BerkRock, Bulgaria and Red Alert Open Air, Ukraine. At their BerkRock appearance the band was direct support for Brazen Abbot. Until the end of 2007 the band played more club shows mainly in Sofia.

In the eve of 2009 the band signed a managing contract with Double D Music. The band made a small tour to promote tiis deal in 4 Bulgarian cities in spring of 2010. 

2010-present

In summer of 2010 the band again underwent drastic changes in personel leaving only to the creative core (Rosen and Georgy) to re-record their debut album with guest musicians. The album is expected to be officialy released in December.

Current line-up

Rosen Georgiev - guitar

Georgy Georgiev - bass, vocals
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+A.X.E.+Project">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.