The Bates were a Eschwege, Germany based Punk Rock band that was primarily known for their numerous cover versions. The group's name refers to the person Norman Bates from Hitchcock's movie Psycho. 

They existed from 1987 until 2001 and "founded at a time in which it was said that punk rock is dead, remaining always faithful to their style" (Trini Trimpop, Power Vision Festival in October 1995.) The band's Punk rock attitude is often pure, although the lyrics are about love, pain and longing.

The Bates published alongside original compositions on each of their albums at least two cover versions. Due to the fact that the cover versions arrived very well, the band released in 2000, an album that only included foreign compositions from different styles, which were presented in a completely new, Bates typical style - by the Beatles (Helter Skelter) and the Rolling Stones (Out of Time) on Sailor (Glass of Champagne) and Aneka (Japanese Boy) to Eiffel 65 (Blue). The highest chart placement of a single was number 10 in Switzerland for the Michael Jackson cover version of "Billie Jean". 

In 2001, the band broke up, allegedly over disputes over the consumption of alcohol by singer / bassist and frontman Markus "Zimbl" Zimmer . Zimbl continued to record two solo albums and a side project until his death, and were released unprofessionally in small quantities and as a consequence are long out of print.

Zimbl died in his apartment on 18 June 2006, caused by a circulatory collapse, as a result of long-standing alcohol and drug addiction. In December 2006,  the 3-CD compilation "A Tribute to Zimbl - Rocking on heaven's door  appeared as an obituary. The proceeds of the tribute CD went to foundations in the fight against drugs.

The band, as well as family and friends Zimmer, organized a honour to him on 28 December 2006, the so-called Zimbl tribute "Rocking on heaven's door". This is also where the filming of the documentary "Zimbl - a real cool time" by Sascha Nölke occurred. Again, the entrance fees were used by the organization "Global care" to make a donation. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Bates">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.