The Silent Rage is a heavy/power metal act hailing from Athens, Greece]. It has been formed up by the guitarist/vocalist Nikos Siglidis and drummer Vasilis Chamos. Together with guitarist Panos Lamprou & bassist Nikitas Papadonikolakis the band has released a rehearsal demo on October 2006 under the title “Perished In Flames”. Afterwards, the band faced numerous line up changes until September 2009 when the band released a five track EP under the band’s name “The Silent Rage” with only remaining member founder Nikos Siglidis on guitars & harsh vocals, Kostas Tokas on lead vocals & guitars, Chris Sevastopoulos on bass, Kimonas Limenidis on keyboards & Lefteris Moros (now on Crusade Of Steel) on the drums. Moros left the band just right after the release of the EP and Panos Karadimas came to fill the position behind the drum kit. Songs of the release featured on two compilations: “Greek Power Vol.1, Released By Rock Hard Greece Magazine w/w "Leading The Legions" & “Compilation Vol.3”, Released By Hellenic Forces Magazine w/w "Perished In Flames". With that lineup the band also made several gigs with highlight the “Tunes In Progress” mini tour in Greece. On July 2010 Tokas, Sevastopoulos & Limenidis left the band to form a new one under the name “God Plays Dice” and Karadimas left in order to focus on his studies. A new solid line up came in with Dionisis Kontis (Ex Fading Reality) on Lead Vocals, Kostas Mavroyannis (also Fiat Lvx) on Lead Guitars, Stavros Tsilivarakos on bass. Under this line up and with the addition of a session drummer, Marios Sofroniou of Fiat Lvx, the band performed as a support act to Shadow Gallery’s debut Athens show. Afterwards the pre-production of the new material has started. On February 2011 the band entered the TSR studios to start recording a new EP under the title “Harvester Of Souls”, which contains three older songs re-arranged by the band plus two new ones. Soon the ranks of the band joined by Stelios Pavlou (Bob Katsionis, Elysion, Semic Stains, The Fallen Within – Recording) as the new drummer. Moreover, the band recently shared the stage with Rage & Grave Digger on their latest Athens common headline show! Now the band is working on some new material that is going to be recorded and featured on the
upcoming album under the title “Inner Scars”.

The Silent Rage is:
Nikos Siglidis – Guitars, Harsh Vocals
Dionisis Kontis – Lead Vocals
Kostas Mavroyannis – Lead Guitars
Stavros Tsilivarakos – Bass
Stelios Pavlou - Drums

Demography
Perished In Flames - 2006
The Silent Rage EP - 2009
Harvester Of Souls EP - 2011!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Silent+Rage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.