The Distillers is an American punk rock band formed in Los Angeles, California in 1998. They released their first two albums on Hellcat Records/Epitaph Records before moving to Sire, part of the Warner Music Group. The Distillers are originally formed by Australian-born Brody Dalle. As lead singer, she adopted a signature harsh singing voice. Although there were constant line-up changes, Brody consistently played the guitar, sang, and wrote or co-wrote nearly every song on all the band's albums. Tony Bradley also played guitar and Ryan Sinn played bass.Before this more solid line up, early band members included guitarist/vocalist Rose Casper, bassist Kim Chi and drummer Matt Young.

The Distillers split for the very first time in 2004, Brody and Tony have since formed a new band called Spinnerette. Ryan Sinn joined Angels & Airwaves after The Distillers split, but left A&A after two years.

Brody announced the emergence of Spinnerette,  a semi-solo project in March 2007. She stated in an interview that, "Spinnerette isn't a band, it's me and whichever musicians I want to work with at the time." Spinnerette released a digital EP called Ghetto Love, via their Official Website on December 11th, 2008. On June 9th, 2009 the band made their entire debut album available for listening on their MySpace page. The album, Spinnerette, was released in the UK on June 15th, 2009. The first single was Baptized By Fire.

In November 2012, Brody Dalle announced on Twitter that she was working on a solo album, featuring Alain Johannes and Michael Shuman of Queens of the Stone Age and Shirley Manson of Garbage.

In November 2013, Dalle announced that she had signed to Caroline Records, a division of Universal Music Group, with the intention of releasing her debut solo album in early 2014. The album was produced by Alain Johannes, and features guest appearances from Shirley Manson of Garbage, Nick Valensi of the Strokes, and Warpaint's Emily Kokal. Dalle is scheduled to promote the album and support Nine Inch Nails and Queens of the Stone Age on their Australia/New Zealand tour in March 2014.

In January 3rd, 2018 Brody Dalle and the band shared a short 30 second trailer video teasing new material and captioned with the words ‘THE DISTILLERS 2018’. Dalle has also changed her Facebook cover photo to The Distillers logo. During 2017 Dalle shared photos of herself at work in the studio.

In 2018, they have been touring the United States and Europe. In September 2018 they released their first EP as a band after 15 years: Man vs. Magnet, which includes a new edit of Brody Dalle's 2014 song "Blood in Gutters" as a B-side.
This new edit has a different lyrics, but it kept the chorus line "Find your weakness, kill it"

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Distillers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.