The O'Reilly and the Paddy Hats are an Irish- folk punk - group of Gevelsberg . In 2011 the Irish folk duo The O'Reillys formed the band The O'Reillys and the Paddyhats, initially consisting of six . The band, often referred to only as Paddyhats , has played concerts at the Wacken Open Air , in Russia, Spain, France, Hungary, the Netherlands and Switzerland.

History
The two Gevelsberg musicians Sean and Dwight O'Reilly performed as the Irish folk duo The O'Reillys from 2009 to 2011, mainly in North Rhine-Westphalia. An encounter with bassist Paddy and violinist Emily O'Farrell in a Gevelsberg pub solidified the first intentions to found a larger band influenced by rock and punk . When finally Dr. Bones on drums and Zack O'Hara on electric guitar, both from friendly bands, agreed, The O'Reillys and the Paddyhats were founded.

The name is made up of the name The O'Reillys, taken over by the duo, and the word for the typical Irish flat caps "Paddyhats".

In the same year, the Paddyhats founded their own festival, the O'Reilly Festival (then Irish Folk Punk Party) with up to 1000 visitors. In 2012 they produced their first demo album Sound of Narrow Streets in the Dialog Studios in Oberhausen . In the years that followed, the band devoted themselves mainly to live performances. There have been performances at the SO36 in Berlin, the Stadium Life and Sevens Club in Moscow, the Gruta 77 in Spain, the Molodoi in Strasbourg and the Barba Negra in Budapest. In 2016 they played next to the Irish Folk Open Air Poyenberg also at the Shamrock Castle Festival hosted by Fiddler's Green .

The preliminary high point of the band's history are the performances at the Open Air in Wacken 2016. On the beer garden stage they played a total of three times in front of several thousand people.

For their second album, the Paddyhats were able to raise over 8,000 euros from their fans with crowdfunding via Startnext.

The album Seven Hearts One Soul was produced together with producer Jörg Umbreit in the Principal Studios in Senden .

The seven musicians shot a music video for their song Barrels of Whiskey in the Hagen open-air museum . The video received over 2 million clicks within a year.

The O'Reillys and the Paddyhats have been with the booking agency “Contribe”, the record label “Flying Dolphin / Metalville” and the publisher Enorm Music since 2016 .

In August 2016, her album Seven Hearts One Soul was re-released.

Only 6 months later on February 3rd, 2017 the band released their 3rd studio album Sign of the Fighter . In addition to a short thriller radio play and 12 of their own songs, the record also features a cover of the well-known hit “ The Boxer ” by Simon & Garfunkel .

With the release of their third studio album Green Blood, the band managed to place themselves at number 57 in the German album charts. This was followed by an extensive tour of Germany and Switzerland with a total of 17 dates. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+O%27Reillys+and+the+Paddyhats">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.