The Little Kicks are a 4 piece band based in Scotland who are becoming increasingly well known for their distinctly catchy upbeat indie pop songs combined with a growing reputation for a great live show.

Since their formation the band have toured across the UK in their own right several times to a great response. The band have also played at festivals such as T in the Park, Belladrum, Insider, Connect and other major Scottish music festivals. Debut album – “Boxing Clever” – was released in late 2009 to critical acclaim in the Scottish and UK music press. The album also won admiration from outside of the UK and has been featured on several European and American blog and online radio sites. Following the LP’s release the band also played shows in both Japan and Germany to a great reception.

Over time the band have shared stages with the likes of Foals, The Vaccines, Frightened Rabbit, Glasvegas, Maximo Park, Mystery Jets, Errors, The Kooks, Editors, The Macabees and many more. The band have recorded live sessions for XFM, BBC Radio Scotland and have also been played on national radio by both Steve Lamacq and Tom Robinson. Not to be underestimated as one trick ponies the band are as comfortable playing live with a couple of acoustics as they are at headlining club nights to a packed dance floor.

Until recently the band also DJed at and ran their own weekly club-night (“The Dirty Hearts Club – DHC”) which became a legendary night in its own right and passed the 5th Birthday mark in January 2011. With a previous guest DJ list of MSTRKRFT, Liquid Liquid, Optimo, Holy Ghost, Juan Maclean, Hot Chip, Franz Ferdinand to name a few the night was a great success. The band decided to wind down the night in August 2011 but still run a new monthly night (entitled Loosen Up!) which has been greeted with a warm welcome by the regulars of the DHC. Furthermore, for the last two years the band have DJed at T in the Park festival, headlining the Fridays late night after-party field to crowds of 1000+ to a great response.

2010 saw the band take a break to accommodate a change in personnel and write new material.
Now in 2011 the results of their hard work will be seen with a new album release!

Over the summer of 2011 the band released a free download single (“Call Of Youth”) which gained airplay on both BBC Radio 1, Radio 2 and BBC 6 Music. The single was a well received teaser for the bands forthcoming second release.

Entitled “The Little Kicks” the bands 2nd album was released on the 28th November 2011.
Prior to the albums release the band completed a 2 week tour across the UK. 

Since the albums release the band have been pretty much non stop! The album has been met with critical praise in both the printed and the online press, tracks have received several plays on the radio and the album even received a favourable review in the NME (despite being unsigned/ self released!). The success of the album has helped establish the band as a respected touring act – a scroll back through the home page is the best way to read what the band have been up to and along the way you will find press articles, radio sessions, details of tours, interviews and more!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Little+Kicks">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.