With their first release, the EP Patterns Of Liquid Red (October 2004), THE ANTI DOCTRINE made one thing clear: this was the beginning of a totally independent mix of various metal styles and the not less diverse types of hardcore. Their progressive approach should be emphasized as of course its not enough to just interweave different genres.

Rather its important to THE ANTI DOCTRINE to give an innovative element to this symbiosis through rhythmic complexity and their love to experiment, also to detach themselves from classic song structures and slowly create a song with a deliberate patchwork-like songwriting, always remembering to take the listener on a consistent journey.

With Patterns Of Liquid Red this working method was to become THE ANTI DOCTRINEs trade mark and will be continued on the long awaited debut album A Worldwide Elite And Its Downfall.

The album kicks off with the almost infernal A Last Analysis Before Breakdown, a cross-section of what the listener can expect on the 13 tracks: Brute chaos parts, merciless, heavy midtempo riffing, precise thundering doublebass passages and ultra brutal vocals which couldnt be more direct, meaner and more intense. Alongside the technically matured instrumentalists its the singer Carsten Albrecht who convincingly demonstrates the full force of raging shouts, guttural growls and razor sharp screams. Here and there some melodic vocals are thrown in to meet overall tastes. The band has managed to give each song on the album a personal touch. Some are more chorus-orientated like their first club single The Fraud Of Disco Culture. Others thrive on their wilful structure making songs like Riot Action oder Brain Meanders That Dont Work stand out.

The album was recorded in the WORLDSEND Studio in Schleiden. In just 12 days the band laid down 17 tracks, 13 of the strongest being chosen for the album. Like the EP it was produced by the quintets guitarist and main songwriter Philip Flock. Together with studio boss Mario Dahmen the band acted on a maxim with musical accuracy and natural sound. Right from the start they made sure the album sounded lively. Following intensive talks with the band and with his 100% keen sense of what they wanted chief masterer Eroc moved away from basic bass parts towards a clear, more aggressive and direct sound that hits you right in the face.

Intensive recordings require an intensive live performance which undoubtedly is one of the main characters of THE ANTI DOCTRINE. Their live shows include a high risk of injury but never miss out the fun in playing. Whoever has been able to see a show will know just what we mean. Its a real audio visual experience.

Its almost impossible to categorise the band or listen casually to their debut album. "A Worldwide Elite And Its Downfall" forces you to concentrate however, you may mosh!! The guys from Dsseldorf have managed to write a metal album which thanks to its substance, detached from any trend and genre dogmas will spark off enthusiasm. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Anti+Doctrine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.