The Silent Wedding is a heavy metal band from Athens, Greece which was formed in July 2006. They played their first live shows performing their own compositions and some covers, sharing the stage with many well-known underground metal bands. 
In 2007 they recorded their first EP including 4 compositions and a live cover of the song “Sleeping in the Fire” of WASP. The band released the EP in 2008 and received positive feedback. The reviewers described The Silent Wedding as a "Heavy Metal band with Prog & Power influences". 
Two years later, their new song “General Autopsy” was included in the compilation of Rock Hard Magazine “Greek Power Vol.1”. After some lineup changes the band started working on its debut album which was completed in May 2012. Their debut album entitled “Livin Experiments” was recorded and mixed at Underground Music Studios (GR) and mastered at Gate Studios (De) by Michael “Miro” Rodenberg (Kamelot, Edguy, Rhapsody etc.). For the album cover the band worked with Travis Smith (Nevermore, Iced Earth, Opeth etc). 
The Silent Wedding signed a record deal with FYB Records (Belgium) and released their debut album “Livin Experimens” on April 6th 2013. Meanwhile the band keeps promoting its work through live shows around Greece in metal festivals (Hellenic Heavy Metal bands fest, Golden Apple Fest, Ayia Napa Youth Fest etc.), sharing the stage with bands like Fates Warning, Firewind, Maiden United, Visions of Atlantis and many more, aiming to gain experience and a “strong” fan base.
In December 2012 the band supported Maiden United on their mini tour in Netherlands with Perttu Kivilaakso (Apocalyptica) as a special guest. A second mini tour took place in September 2013. In the same year Jimmy (Guitars) and Johnny (Keyboards) joined the band of Eve's Apple (featuring vocalists of Delain, Tristania, Sirenia and many more) for a headlining show at Metal Female Voices Festival in October 2013. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Silent+Wedding">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.