Founded around 2008, Trell and Ronnie were apart of a guitar group, one of the projects was to perform a song for a group of people, the two came up with an original song rather than performing a cover, Trell's brother Skyler decided to play the drums, their cousin Demi was chosen to play bass, the four were a band without a name, their performance was awful but people got the basic idea of what was to become in the future, over the months they kicked around band names, ultimately picking Blasphemous, later on they decided to change the name upon realizing other bands with the same name, a few months went by without a band name, again, Trell and Skyler were watching Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story when the name The White Indian was said, after that the band name was now The White Indian, the band knew it sounded silly for a death metal band to be called The White Indian but also different.
The entitled song became The White Indian, other songs written in the early days were Tainted Pussy, Down By Thy River, Randomness, Frutiy Tootie. Never playing any other shows and not taking the band very seriously.
2010- We decided to record a 3 song demo, entitled EVP recorded at Toxic Studios, it was the bands very first time in a recording studio. The songs recorded were The Apparition, Poltergeist, and EVP. The recording was okay but it was enough to give out to find shows. Demi had to leave the band for personal reasons, the band got Marty Doka to fill in for bass and eventually become full time bassist. Finally playing a show in November and getting our first club show at UB's Bar and Grill in December.
2011- Getting used to playing shows, the band played at UB's about 6 times before taking a three month break. Ronnie left the band around February or so, the band was a 3 piece until Demi came back into the band. When the band returned to the stage in September, it was at Chasers opening for Seven Will Fall. In October we got to open for Death Angel, which was the biggest show for the band so far, during that time, Marty decided to leave the band and we became a 3 piece again. We opened for Reign Of Vengeance and that was the last show of 2011.
2012- The band finally got a new logo designed by Steve Crow and it was new start we needed, first show of the year was playing with Pathology, next show was playing with Cattle Decapitation, then in February opening for Goatwhore and Hate Eternal, in March for Exhumed, Abysmal Dawn, and Arkaik, in May for Vital Remains, and it's only the beginning for The White Indian.
We are still writing new songs, starting to get more brutal death but still retaining our groove that we always had. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+White+Indian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.