There are two artists with this name
1. A metal band from Chile
2. An Alternative band from the United States

The Outside (Chile/Turkey/Germany / http://www.the-outside.net/)

Coming together from Chile and Germany in 2008, The Outside are now challenging listeners with a compelling mélange of hard music. The pounding and banging drums of Alberto Atalah. The rhythmic and thrashing guitars of Sergio Klein. From Turkey, Halid Pestil joined the band with his distinctly driving bass. And Roland B. Marx' vocals, melodic as direct in style. All in one the now Berlin-based outfit The Outside evoke a storm of sound, ignoring subgenres and creating their very own vision of progress in metal.

The bands first Demo-CD was recorded live in Berlin's Monongo studios (Motörhead, Lemmy Kilmister, Skew Siskin) and released in 2009. The drums for the full-length album were recorded there as well, guitars were done at Sergio Klein's very own Artshock studios, and vocalist Roland B. Marx recorded privately at home. Mixing and mastering were done by Igor Leiva at Atomic Noise Studio in Santiago de Chile. The outstanding cover artwork was painted by Claudio Bergamin, who works for artists like Rob Halford, Criminal or Paradox.

Genre: Metal

Members:
Roland B. Marx - Vocals
Sergio Klein - Guitars
Halid Pestil - Bass
Alberto Atalah - Drums

Hometown: Viña del Mar, Chile

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(below is the bio of the disbanded US alternative band with the same name)

Tree Jackson – Vocals
Damien Girardi – Drums
Ben Kennedy - Guitar
Will Luttrell – Bass

A 4-piece throw back to the days when rock and roll was a pocket of groove and unapologetically loud, The Outside's barrage of melodic musings and off-kilter rhythms intrigue and excite. Embodying elements of the Deftones, Yeah Yeah Yeahs and the Pumpkins, the New York group brands stages with an unmistakably claimed sound that, in the end, leaves raised fists and silver dollar eyed audiences everywhere. The forceful backbone of drummer Damien Girardi and bassist Will Luttrell, paired with the sheer melodic thread of Ben Kennedy's guitar, leaves singer Tree free to herald the charge with soulful belts of song significant to the times we live in. Channeling the strife of daily living and the perseverance of will, The Outside holds nothing back. Ever.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Outside">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.