The Red Krayola (or Crayola) are an experimental rock band who formed in Houston, Harris County, Texas in late 1966. The group was  made up of  musician and visual artist Mayo Thompson who has remained the group's leader and sole constant for over 50 years, novelist Rick Barthelme who was the son of Donald Barthelme, and bassist Steve Cunningham who joined them at the age of 17.  One night's show at a club called "Love" attracted people to the stage, audience members began to walk on up and improvise with whatever they saw fit, this would be the event that would spawn their secondary auxiliary "The Familiar Ugly" who'd follow and improvise amongst them wherever they so pleased.

 After playing at local radio station KNUZ's battle of the bands event hosted in the Gulfgate mall, the Red Crayola were subsequently signed to "International Artists" by house producer Lelan Rogers. He suggested they bring their group of 50 friends into the studio to record a "freak-out" album. Roky Erickson of the 13th Floor Elevators would make two instrumental cameos on electric organ. The album's title would be coined by Steve Cunningham: The Parable of Arable Land, the record went  on to sell 50,000 copies on its first run and garnered the attention of Jimi Hendrix, John Peel and the Beatles. Their sophomore album "God Bless the Red Krayola and all Who Sail With It" saw drummer Rick Barthelme depart from the band, the record flopped, selling around 6,000 copies - perhaps due to it's minimalistic sound contrasting with their debuts maximalist noise. Red Krayola's follow-ups would never live up to the success of their first attempt, but the one thing they all have in common is that every release broke new ground and every release presaged a different alternative rock genre that would not be recognized until years later.

The Red Krayola remain one of the most experimental acts of all time, deconstructing and experimenting with the very foundations of popular music through the lens of rock and roll, they refused  to conform or adhere to any sort of musical convention and for that reason, they remain fresher and more relevant than their contemporaries. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Red+Krayola">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.