There are many bands called "The Sect"

1) Drum and bass producer team
2) Atmospheric Black Metal band
3) Punk band from Derry, Ireland
4) Punk band from West Midlands

1) Initially meeting through mutual friends in the late 1990s, Blade and Virtua have been producing Drum & Bass together ever since. Long-time friend and DJ partner Method joined soon after, completing the trio and The Sect was born.

Hooking up with Raiden and Propaganda whilst living in the South of England, they all share the same love of driving, underground drum and bass, especially the breaks, techno and futuristic soundscapes that embody the Offkey sound. This culminated in their first signing to the label - 'Nerve Attack'.

Heavily influenced by the futuristic releases on Underfire, the techno-edged Konflict sound and the early Prodigy tracks, The Sect aim to produce forward-thinking tracks which blend techno and drum and bass elements to move the dance floor.

They are no strangers to the 1210s either, Blade & Method having DJ'd regularly at clubs and events across the UK and abroad for over ten years and Virtua showcasing his turntablist skills at the DMC championships.

Although as individuals they have had various releases across a number of different genres (currently Virtua is enjoying success as one half of burgeoning Breakbeat duo Digital Breaks Foundation), together they are committed to pushing the technoid Drum & Bass sound and are excited to join the Offkey family.

With current releases on Offkey and Obscene and also a whole host of new tracks signed to Offkey, Freak, Position Chrome, ELP and Habit, The Sect are picking up interest from a lot of big name players within the scene, plus establishing themselves as big favourites of die hard Drum and Bass fans all over the world. Playing at nights throughout the UK and Europe, these guys are destroying dance floors wherever they play, or even where their tunes are played.

You have been warned.. Prepare for a complete technoid onslaught of Drum & Bass.

http://www.offkeymp3.com

There was another British band named The Sect, who recorded two albums and several 7"s in the late 80s (87-88). Members went on to form Gan and One Car Pile-Up in the 1990s.   

2) In 2007 Franck (Sarcueil, Umbakrail) and Max (Necuratul) created the Sect, a french black metal band which combines agressive riffs, melodies and an occult atmosphere. After some compositons, Slo (Smohalla, Twilight Congregation) joinded the band for the position of singer and keyboard player.

http://www.myspace.com/thesectfr

3) Active between 1979 and 1983. From Derry, Ireland. http://irishrock.org/ipnw/bands/sect.html

4) Active until 1991, but now reformed. http://www.myspace.com/sectcymbals <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Sect">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.