The Dead South is a four-piece acoustic ensemble based in Regina, Saskatchewan. With Nate Hilts' gritty vocals and aggressive guitar strumming, Scott Pringle's soaring harmonies and mandolin chops, Colton Crawford's blazing banjo licks and steady kick drum, and Danny Kenyon's prominent cello melodies, The Dead South blends elements of folk, bluegrass, classical, and rock which results in a unique, modern, and authentic blend of boot-stompin' acoustic music.
 
The Dead South has been hard at work since they formed as a band, having played several notable shows, some of which include: showcasing at Reeperbahn Festival 2014, Canadian Music Week 2014, Regina Folk Festival, Ness Creek Music Festival, Gateway Music Festival, Juno Fest 2013 - 2014, Grey Cup Festival 2013 where they opened for Serena Ryder, Saskatchewan Party Premier's Dinner, The Works Art and Design Festival, All Folk'd Up Festival, Frontier Days Festival, Long Days Night Festival, Picker's Cup Festival and the Cathedral Village Arts Festival.
 
On top of playing shows, The Dead South released an EP in June 2013 titled The Ocean Went Mad and We Were to Blame. Following the success of their debut release, The Dead South returned to the studio and recorded their first full-length album, titled Good Company, which was released in April 2014 to a capacity crowd at local venue, The Owl. Shortly after the release of Good Company, The Dead South showcased at Canadian Music Week in Toronto where they caught the attention of Jörg Tresp of Devil Duck Records (based out of Hamburg, Germany). He immediately signed the band, released the album in Europe, and has booked the band for numerous overseas tours.
 
Earlier in 2014, The Dead South entered the 104.9FM The Wolf Queen City Rocks battle of the bands competition where they won, coming  out ahead of 24 other bands. Soon afterwards, they were selected to represent Saskatchewan in the nationwide CBC Searchlight competition for Canada's best new artist. They subsequently received local and national recognition along with airplay on 104.9FM The Wolf , CBC Radio 2 and several other radio stations, some of which include CJTR Regina Community Radio, CFCR Saskatoon Community Radio, and CBC Radio 1 in Saskatchewan.
 
The Dead South has been interviewed and featured in many newspapers across the province, some of which include the Leader Post, The Verb, Metro, Bridges, and QC. They have been on Global TV and CTV several times promoting their music and shows. The band was also on the cover of City Slicker, a Regina magazine, which featured a band profile after having won Queen City Rocks.
 
Since the inception of the band, The Dead South has continually pushed the energy of their live shows, as well as pushed what is possible between four ordinary acoustic instruments. The unique abilities and viewpoints of each band member make The Dead South an impossible band to duplicate, and a fixture of the Regina music scene that will not soon be leaving.
 
The Dead South is: Nate Hilts, Scott Pringle, Colton Crawford, Danny Kenyon
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Dead+South">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.