I could not find any information on the band 'The Parish' other than the band members names on the album 'Dance On The Moon'.

Band Members
Coen Wolters: guitar, vocals
Anne Ottema: bass
Henk Erkelens: drums

'Dance On The Moon'

Tracklist:

01 - City Of The Kings 02:29
02 - Selling Illusions 03:38
03 - Dance On The Moon 05:47
04 - Drivin' South 03:55
05 - I Should Be Crying 02:51
06 - I'm Loosing You 09:34
07 - No More Doggin' 02:50
08 - Man Of Many Words 03:11
09 - Just Another Day 15:16

Cohen Walters Biography

Coen Wolters blends blues-rock and high energy funk with warm soulful elements. Though he himself wouldn’t attach a label, his music can be best described as ‘Groove Rock’!

Coen is a naturally gifted guitar player, singer and songwriter with a unique sound that seamlessly flows from beautifully intense subtleties to fast-moving, hard-hitting blasts of power. Coen has played many popular festivals throughout Europe and in the USA. He composes and produces his own material, including mixing and mastering, and directs and edits his own videos. As a matter of fact, he even builds his own instruments and equipment - that’s from guitars to amps and right down to effect pedals.

Coen picked up his first guitar at the age of 18, and when he did there was no stopping him; he compressed years of learning into months and he developed his own unique individual style that is clearly recognisable today.

“I have always loved soul. I listened to a lot of soul music when I was a kid. Later, I played in bands, mainly hard-rock, we just had fun and played what we knew at the time…
Then one day I walked into a pub and there was a band playing a Hendrix song. Man, I was so blown away, never heard anything like it, a real eye opener. I was totally fascinated. From that moment on, everything fell into place”.

“I have always wanted to do my own thing. For me, my latest album Illumination is a reflection of this journey and the mix of styles I am so passionate about. I always put the groove and the song before the guitar. That’s how my songs come to life”.

Following the success of Broken Glass and As the Crow Flies, Coen recently released his critically acclaimed album Illumination.

Website: Cohen Walters <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Parish">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.