1) The Snails are a group of enthusiastic noise makers from Baltimore. Leaving trails since 2008. They consist of  Snailbraham, Snailburne, Snamuel, Snailliam, and Sandy Snailbelow from Baltimore, MD. Part of band sometimes come out of their shell to perform  as Future Islands. The Snails' first album, "Songs From The Shoebox" was released in 2016. 

2) “Reggae, Soul, Rocksteady and Roll,” is the best way to describe the sound of Philadelphia’s own, The Snails. At a show, it's easy to feel the elements of reggae, 50's rock and roll, and that sweet Motor City Soul music. Their unique sound is guaranteed to get your feet movin', and hips groovin'. Their first two self-recorded releases have helped them get a full grasp on their crafted sound. After releasing, “From Kingston To Memphis” in August of 2011, The Snails have been playing up and down the East Coast, meanwhile writing for their next release, “Reggae Timebomb” due in summer of 2012. In January of 2012, The Snails hit the road with Ska Legend King Django doubling as his backing band, and support for all the shows. This was their third time on the road as a full band. The Snails guarantee that each show offers a highly passionate performance with a flavor of nostalgia for Jamaica’s Rocksteady, and Detroit’s sweet soul music.

Ska Crazy Podcast says,"The Snails are no “three chord wonder” band either, they’re an incredibly talented group of young musicians. Each one a master of their craft. Josh Parry’s drums and Devon Greider’s booming bass provide the backbone. Add Tim Hildebrand’s infectious and danceable rhythm guitar and Kyle Williams’ soulful keyboard solos and the stage is set. Top it all off with Todd Fausnacht’s gritty vocals and masterful guitar solos, and you have the sound that is The Snails. …The Snails have managed to take a sound from way back and make it all their own. That’s why I feel that their music is timeless and will be on the minds of all Reggae fans, both young and old, for years to come.” Overall, the main idea of The Snails is to be the bridge that keeps reggae, soul, and rock and roll alive for future generations.

The Snails punk-rock band from Česká Lípa http://bandzone.cz/thesnails <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Snails">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.