This page is shared between more than one artist: an American hardcore band, Swedish death metal band, an early Canadian punk band, a The Cure tribute band, an alias of Dutch producer Michiel van der Kuy.

1) The Curse were a short lived melodic-hardcore band from Philadelphia consisting of members of Paint it Black, Kid Dynamite, Kill the Man Who Questions, and the Loved Ones. They released a self titled ep on Hellbent Records in late 2002. They also appeared on the compilation "The Philadelphia Sound" along with fellow Philly bands, Paint it Black, GO! for the Throat, and Knives Out.

Guitarist Dave Hause, who now sings for the Loved Ones, covered their song "Benson and Hedges" on the Loved Ones' 2006 release, "Keep Your Heart."

2)An active Swedish death metal band formed in Stockholm in 2011. They have released one EP, Come Forth digitally in 2015. Featuring guitarist and vocalist of defunct death metal band Kaamos, guitarist of Thyrfing, and drummer of Valkyrja. Christofer Barkensjo, the drummer of Kaamos, was in the band for the first couple of years. They are looking for a suitable label.
[officialurl]http://www.facebook.com/thecurse.deathmetal[/officialurl]


3) The Curse was a late 70s all-female punk rock band formed in Toronto, Canada. They were best known for their single "Shoeshine Boy" about  a young boy who was murdered in 1977. They sent a copy of the single to the jailed killers.

4) The Curse was formed in 2003. Originally just an idea by singer Brian and former guitarist Jesus while still in high school in the late 90's, today The Curse has become known as "The Ultimate Tribute to The Cure". The band has performed dozens of shows to thousands of fans over the course of 2 ½ years, many of them being sold out shows in some of the top venues in Southern California including The House of Blues, The Henry Fonda Theatre, The Knitting Factory, and The Roxy. The Curse also headlined the 2005 80's Convention . During their 2 ½ years playing together, The Curse's love for The Cure and their music has led them to learn and master over 70 of The Cure's hits, rarities, and even entire albums. Because of their dedication to remaining true to The Cure sound, their performances have won the respect of die-hard Cure fans, young and old. While The Curse makes no attempt to dress as The Cure, this well-dressed group usually in suits have won praise from such icons as Richard Blade who has said, "Close your eyes and you would swear you were in a small crowded London club in the early 80s with Robert and the boys playing away at the height of their power". Attend one performance and see for yourself what thousands of Cure fans already have. Witness the energy in the crowd, the love of The Cure, their music, and words as it fills the entire room. Perhaps then you too might call The Curse what others already have, The Ultimate Tribute to The Cure.

5) The Curse was an alias of Michiel van der Kuy, who has released at least one single — All Systems (Are Go) — under this name. Writing credits on that release go to Denzil Slemming, which is also an alias of Michiel. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Curse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.