The Venting Machine hails from the Underground Metal music scene in the Northern regions of California. Having formed in late 1998 (originally under the name Breach) these four regular, dedicated and sometimes overly silly individuals, definitely have something serious to say in their thrash-rooted brand of metal music. All of the expected elements of a truly talented metal band are easily audible and are in monstrous display. Image and stage presence are important to the band but take a back seat to performance and clarity. The band has never followed any trends or created music for anyone but themselves. This is solely responsible for their friendship outside the band and their longevity in the scene.

Most of TVM have been close friends since the early 90’s and grew up around music in their families. The band was drawn together by similar influences such as Megadeth, Prong, Sepultura, Pantera, and early Metallica. In 1998 the four members began to write and record their first original songs and once the band had enough material to perform, they immediately hit the local club circuit.

Between 1998 and 2003, the band performed hundreds of live shows all throughout California and by the time 2004 had come; The Venting Machine had built a solid reputation and successfully carved their own metallic niche in the Nor-Cal underground metal scene. In July of that same year, the band independently produced and released a twelve-song demo titled “Diablo Demo”. Selling over 300 units in the first two weeks, “Diablo” received rave reviews from webzines, garageband.com, and local radio stations all over the world. It had also earned the band several awards and a few opening slots for national acts like Chimaira, Systematic, All Shall Perish, Black Label Society, and Crematorium.

Riding the winds of “Diablo’s” local success, the band re-entered the studio in 2006 to produce what was expected to be their finest effort to date. “A Death To Your Scene” is a huge step forward in the evolution of this band and is packed with brilliant performances, dazzling musical moments, and straightforward metal. The speed, technicality, musicianship, and diversity are in beautiful display within each song. “A.D.T.Y.S” also offers a much more mature and intense musical pallet as compared to “Diablo”. ..With this new effort the bands seems to be more focused than ever and at the end of the day, The Venting Machine enjoys being free to perform and do what they want musically, and lyrically. Its is a valuable therapeutical outlet for this band, a chance to live the dream...full steam ahead!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Venting+Machine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.