There are several artists who used this name:
1. The Tower is a Swedish  ‘bad luck boogie’ combo.
According to the band’s self-penned timeline, in 1945 they withdrew to their eponymous Tower: 
“The four remained in solitude throughout the 50’s, an isolation interspersed only by a Zenith tube radio which brought them pop cultural news-pieces aired by American radio stations. They tried to adapt the rockabilly tunes they heard into their own music but were mostly unsuccessful (their innate sense of rhythm being too crooked).” 
Allegedly splitting in the 70s, they returned to the Tower in 1983, where they remained until 2012 – “when rumours of the end of the world enticed them to leave”. 
Their debut album, Hic Abundant Leones, was released in 2014.

2. The Tower was a synth-pop band first formed in 1985. Writing all their own material, with the synth scene in full swing they became very popular locally in Norfolk, UK. As they progressed there music found ever more greater circles, in Europe and America where they were often played on the local radio stations. During there time they wrote about seven albums and had several record companies chasing them. They then changed there name to Redshift for a last album until finally going there separate ways. In 2010 Dean Burnett, prominent member of the Tower and composer/writer of a great deal of the songs, decided to re-release the better of the tracks recorded, and started a Tower website, whilst working with new band Weathered Wall.The Storm was the first album released by The Tower  back in the days of cassettes. So with a few extra tracks The storm is the first re-release to hit the digital market.

3. The Tower was a (very) short-lived 1969 project of two tremendously succesful Dutch musicians of the time: singer-songwriter Boudewijn de Groot and Cuby + Blizzards' star guitarist, Eelco Gelling. After two singles ('In Your Life' succesful, 'Captain Decker' a failure) the collaboration was discontinued.

4. The Tower is (or was?) also a doom metal band from Prague, Czech Republic. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Tower">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.