The Nude Party is an American band formed in Boone, North Carolina, in 2013.

The members came together in the freshman dormitories of Appalachian State University in 2012. Patton Magee (lead vocals, guitar), and later Austin Brose (percussion, vocals), linked up with childhood friends Connor Mikita (drums) and Alec Castillo (bass guitar, vocals), and stepbrothers Shaun Couture (lead guitar, vocals) and Don Merrill (organ/piano, vocals). The following summer, with the shimmer of The Kinks, Velvet Underground, and other still-unsurpassed classic rock masterpieces as their soundtrack, the young men moved into a lake house outside of town, began acquiring and learning to play instruments, and jamming on rudimentary riffs. Friends came by the lake house to swim and canoe and party and soon ritual nudity was a part of the festivities.

When the fall semester came around the friends moved into a house in Boone and the jamming continued in the basement on a nightly basis. During this time the Dionysian Adamite sextet began developing a following as the house band at a notorious Boone party palace referred to as the 505 House. The bare honesty of their performances was contagious and their audience also started partying au naturel. While these traditions may appear risqué to the casual observer, the band explains, “These weren't orgies, they weren’t sexual even. It was just kind of a wild exhibitionism that we felt gave us freedom.” 

As the informal aggregation of musicians became a defined unit, and were offered gigs outside of the 505 House, they had now become a proper band and thus needed a name. Best known around the campus as “the naked party band,” they chose to call their group simply “The Nude Party.” Ironically, since playing in their birthday suits was illegal in the bars and clubs of this next step of their career, The Nude Party began playing clothed as soon as they were christened.

By 2014, living in a bigger more isolated house, known as “The Nude Ranch” by townies, the band met Black Lips’ Oakley Munson at a Night Beats show in Charlotte and before long the drummer became their mentor. He recorded the band’s “Hot Tub” EP and the band began
honing their craft as incessant road warriors in the national market.

2018 found the band living with Munson in the Catskills. Their prolific performance schedule has built a substantial following Brooklyn and beyond and they’ve just completed their first proper LP – the culmination of six years of experimentation and refinement of material. The band’s much-anticipated self-titled debut was released on New West Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Nude+Party">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.