The Glorious Death, is a project that began in late 2005 with Carlos Linares and John Fredy Mejia ,From Medellin Colombia  abroad in the USA with the idea of forming a death metal band.

A little later joins guitarist Jakub Zawadzki Polish origin, after a few months of rehearsal  and with a couple of songs besides bassist auditions we got across Andres Serrano bass guitarist also from Medellin Colombia.

The band begins to incorporate with rehearsal and playing only original songs with the same trend and taste to give the power and shape of the Death Metal genre.

Carlos drummer was a member of bands like Neurasthenia, Autistics (Colombia) and Officer Down, At Odds With God (Florida), guitarist and vocalist John participated in the bands Millennium, Averno (Colombia), Blood Oath (Florida) among others He is currently Lucera’s  vocalist (Cali Col USA) ,guitarist Jakub participated in bands like Souless and Dragula (Poland), Andres Bass player settle bands like Slander (Colombia), In The Eyes Of (Florida).

The band genre and influences reborn of Death, Thrash and Black Metal with roots in European and South American style this makes The Glorious Death. The band recorded a demo-cd in 2007 entitled The End which has been to promote and distribute of the band.

The lyrics of the band are related to reality, society, life, death and so on.
In the Year 2009 Jakub Zawadzki decided to leave the band for personal reasons wishing him the best for our brother of metal and gracious thanks for contributing to the band through the years.

In search of new guitarist joins the band an origin Colombian Alejandro Maya (Cali), current guitarist for the band At Odds With God (Florida).

The band has participated in metal concerts and festivals in the USA such as:
Death To Miami Fest II.
Death Fucking Metal At Churchill's Pub.
Local Metal Showcase.
Multiple Tonnage Of Metal Cruise Pre Apocalyptic Party, before the metal cruise.
Cupids Massacre.
AntiChrist Mass Party.
Black Trash Attack Of Infernal Hell, among others.

Current Line Up
Carlos Linares: Drums (Medellin-Col)
Andres Serrano: Bass (Medellin-Col)
Alejandro Maya: Guitar (Cali-Col)
John Mejia: Guitar And Vocals (Medellin-Col)

At this time The Glorious Death is ready to launch its first video clip entitled Scars Of War also the first full album will be called The Glorious Death.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Glorious+Death">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.