The Dissociatives is an Australian band consisting of Daniel Johns of Silverchair and Australian dance producer Paulmac. Their debut single Somewhere Down the Barrel" entered the Australian Top 40 charts on debut on March 15, 2004 and was one of the five most played tracks on Australian radio in March. The debut album The Dissociatives was released on the April 4, 2004 and was expected to do spectacularly but album sales lagged after it debuted in the top 10 of the ARIA album charts for one week and fell rapidly. The first single release "Somewhere Down the Barrel" reached #8 during its debut week.
Daniel Johns and Paul Mac met in 1997 when Paul Mac remixed Freak off Silverchair's Freak Show album. The two became friends and Paul Mac worked on the subsequent Silverchair albums Neon Ballroom, Diorama and Young Modern. The two worked on the experimental I Can't Believe It's Not Rock EP released in 2000.
In mid 2003, Daniel Johns and Paul Mac got together to produce the album recording the basic tracks in London and finishing it off in Sydney and Newcastle. The pair produced all the instrumental tracks and vocals themselves with Johns writing the lyrics and recording them in Newcastle.

The pair described the music and lyrics in the April 2004 Australian edition of Rolling Stone. "The music is, for me, a combination of excitement, happiness, rambunctiousness and viciousness, done to whimsy," Johns said. "I'd add with a hint of melancholy, but it's more outweighed by joy," added Mac.

The pair, in an interview on Rove Live that the musical journey of The Dissociatives is "Definitely not a side project" and that they plan to release more interesting and groundbreaking music in the future under this guise. However, at the moment the band is on hiatus, due to their current projects, i.e. Johns with Silverchair, Mac with a contracted two year commitment to live performances with Silverchair & The Presets, the band of Julian Hamilton and Kim Moyes, currently touring.

Studio albums
The Dissociatives (2004); #12 Australia (Gold) 

EPs
I Can't Believe It's Not Rock EP (2000) 

Singles
"Somewhere Down The Barrel" (2004) - #25 Australia 
"Young Man, Old Man (You Ain't Better Than The Rest)" (2004) - #46 Australia 

http://www.thedissociatives.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Dissociatives">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.