The Taste of Silver was formed in January of 2004 after the breakup of guitarist Faust Agin Eddie's prior short-lived Boston-based arena rock band Motion Sickness. The band began with Eddie and Alex Carrara of Devil In The Kitchen. Shortly thereafter, vocalist Rowan Curran joined the group, originally intending to play bass but moving instantly to vocals citing a lack of any instrument proficiency. All three had known each other from a mixture of friends while attending Arlington High School in Arlington, MA.

TTOS intended sound was to be similar to a mix of Maryland's Swarm of the Lotus and Oakland's Dystopia, but rapidly moved on to borrow from such 90's angular-hardcore artists as Reversal of Man and Saetia, and more technical math-core bands like Botch. Extensive touring and premature recordings led to the band quickly gathering much notoriety, and soon would influence a style of grind mixed with melody that some would refer to as "melodigrind".

Most notable in smaller towns outside bigger cities, the band was consistently on the go, rarely stopping back home to write new material. They took pride in their suburban background, leading to an article written about them in their town paper The Arlington Advocate. 

Numerous "leaked" practice recordings would float around via the internet and burned cds. Often "final" versions were released gradually and without mixing or any formal format. The plague of constant - but usually misleading or false - invitations for vinyl productions or live cds lead the band to fruitless debt recording and mastering songs in their infancy, only to find themselves left with only the copy in their hands. 

In 2005, TTOS decided to form their own record label, spearheaded by Carrara with generous assistance from Eddie. The label would be called Argentum Decorum Est( "In The Manner of Silver" ) as a reference to their passionately hands-on and quixotic methods. All of their recordings were done with novel methods, featuring improvisational studio techniques such as recording drums through a Fisher-Price cassette player or using a guitar string as a patch bay cable. ADE would release nearly all of the bands catalog, save for their final record Narcimallion released on  Hold True Recordings in 2007.

The year 2007 would further mark an eventful period as the band's sound began to hit a critical blossom. Songs grew to be more epic in scale, with multiple guitar parts and guest appearances on recordings. Different tunings and more of a use of open-chord techniques began to rise to the surface, and Curran's broken-throat vocals matured into his own sound. However, the nearly bottomless debt mixed with the cramped touring conditions had taken its toll, and the band decided to part ways after a Phoenix, AZ show in July of that summer.

Successive bands:
Alexander Carrara - Parasitic Extirpation also Devil In The Kitchen

Faust Agin Eddie - Heisai Yasokawa's EMPTY ORCHESTRA

Rowan Curran - The Arkham White <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Taste+Of+Silver">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.