The are at least two groups called The Independents:

1. The Independents were an American R&B vocal group active from 1971 to 1975. They scored several hits on the U.S. Pop and R&B charts. Their 1973 song "Leaving Me" reached No. 21 on the Billboard Hot 100, and remained on the chart for 14 weeks. Sales of over a million copies led to a gold record being awarded by the R.I.A.A. on May 23, 1973. 

After the group broke up and recording the solo albums, Passionate Breezes and Gonna Getcha Love, Chuck Jackson, along with fellow group member Marvin Yancy, achieved success as the producers and writers for most of Natalie Cole's early chart releases, and also had success with Phyllis Hyman and Ronnie Dyson. Jackson is the half-brother of the Reverend Jesse Jackson and is not related to singer Chuck Jackson. In 2019, Maurice Jackson reformed The Independents with Theo Huff, Rashan Thompson, Vanessa Lainey, Parkas Alexander and himself. 


2. Formed in early 1992 by Evil Presly and Willy B, The Independents was born out of the frustration of music being stereotyped and just plain fucking boring. Willy B and Evil both loved all types of music, from Conway Twitty to Iron Maiden, from the Ramones to Etta James and The Specials. Both loved horror and sci-fi movies and wanted to find some way to include it in their music. Evil started writing lyrics that told horror tales while Willy B kept the guitar in one hand and gave the entire world the finger with the other. Their only goal is playing the music they want, when, where, and how they want.

After a few years the guys had gathered a good following from coast to coast through rough demos. It was during this time that Evil met and befriended the bass player for the legendary Ramones, CJ Ramone. CJ got The Independents on a few opening dates of the Ramones' Acid Eaters tour. While driving to their first show with The Independents, Joey Ramone listened to some of The Independents' demos given to him by CJ. He really dug what he heard and upon arrival at the venue, demanded that CJ introduce him to the band. After the tour, Joey made an offer the guys could not refuse. He told them he wanted to manage the band which he did from 1995 till his passing in 2001...:namespace prefix = o ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:office" />

The Independents have done over 20 North American tours and 2 European tours.

They have performed as main support for such bands as the Ramones, Misfits, Rancid, Cheap Trick, Less Than Jake, Blondie, etc., to headlining their own tours. The Independents have also played many festivals including the Warped Tour, South by Southwest, CMJ, and the Punk & Disorderly Festival in ..:namespace prefix = st1 ns = "urn:schemas-microsoft-com:office:smarttags" />Berlin. They have also played at countless sci-fi/horror conventions and tattoo conventions. These ghouls, who put the 'fun' back in funeral, have been known to tour up to ten months a year with their unique, highly energetic, party-esque, horror-influenced music. Their hard touring schedule only leaves them wanting to destroy more.

The Independents released their first album 'In For The Kill' in 1995 on the indie label Rock Duster Records. It was followed by the 'Stalker' EP CD and 10" picture disc on Elevator Music in 1997. The self-titled, 'The Independents' EP, was released on Hellcat/Epitaph label in 1998.  'The Unholy Living Dead' EP produced by legendary producer Daniel Rey and Joey Ramone was released in 1999. The Independents released 'Back From The Grave', which was also produced by the diabolical duo Daniel Rey and Joey Ramone, in 2001 shortly before Joey's untimely passing. The limited edition 'Back From The Grave' picture disc was released by Jump Up Records in 2002. 'Live From Murder Beach', The Independents first live album was released in 2003. Fast Music released the 'Full Moon Arise' EP in 2004. The Independents best selling record to date 'Eternal Bond' was released in 2006 followed by 'The Early Years 1993-97 Demos' in 2007. 'Do It Again', the newest recordings from The Independents is slated for release in October 2008.

The Independents have many songs on movie soundtracks such as 'Hardcore Logo', 'Babydoll', '100 Tears', 'Anal Paprika', and countless other Trauma movies. They have also appeared in the mystery horror spoof film 'Final Rinse' and the soon be released 'Undead on Arrival'. The Independents have been on countless compilations including the 1994 release 'Misfits of Ska'  with such bands as Less Than Jake and Sublime, a 2000 Cornerstone Music release including  The Cure and Tom Jones, and 'Save The Boobies' 2008 compilation with the Dwarves, Texas Terri, etc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Independents">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.