There are 2 bands called The Guns: an 80's hardcore punk band from Cleveland, Ohio. (1) an indie/rock band from South Wales (2) 

1) The Guns were an 80’s Hardcore Punk band from Cleveland, Ohio. They started in 1982 as a way for two kids to work off their excess sugar buzz. Scott Eakin (age 12) and David Araca (age 13), of the band The Dark, formed their own side project, The Guns. They played at parties and a few shows. In ‘83 they recorded a demo and contributed 2 songs to “The New Hope”, a compilation of NE Ohio punk/hardcore bands, released by Scott’s older brother and singer for The Dark, Tom Eakin (aka Tommy Dark). The two songs led off the album and had an incredible reaction. In late 1983, Sean Saleyquit the drum chair in Starvation Army and joined The Guns as bass player. They played a ton of shows at The Pop Shop, The Lakefront, and other holes during late ‘83 and most of ‘84. The Guns recorded an album produced by Scott Lasch in ‘84 which, other than a song contributed to the “They Pelted Us With Rocks And Garbage” compilation released by Negative Print fanzine, was shelved. In late ‘84, Sean moved away from Cleveland and eventually to Washington DC to play drums for the band Government Issue. The Guns carried on with Scott Silverman on lead guitar and Bob Ries on bass through 1987. Scott Eakin went on to be in many other bands. David Araca had much success in the band False Hope. As of 2000, Scott and his brother Tom are in the Cleveland band Stepsister.

2) The Guns were formed in 2005 by the ex-frontman of Welsh post hardcore band When Reason Sleeps. The Guns are an indie/punk/2step rock band that mix heavy guitars with fast and passionate vocals.
      Despite being relative newcomers they have amassed a large numbers of gigs, touring with the likes of Lostprophets, The Blackout, Kids In Glass Houses and many others. They recently played the main stage at the Full Ponty festival to much acclaim.
      To date they have only one release, a 3 track EP, but have just finished production and recording of their debut full length which is rumoured to drop around autumn 2007.
      Taken from their official Myspace http://www.myspace.com/gunsmusic
"The Guns are a four piece rock band from South Wales, They are Alex Wiltshire lead vocals and lead guitar, Adam J Turner on guitar and backing vocals, Tom Coburn on bass and backing vocals and Kob on drums. They have gigged extensively and toured with the LostProphets, played the main stage at the Full Ponty and were nominated for a welsh music award all in their first year. Their live shows have received critical acclaim and they have built up a massive fan base on their live performances. "

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Guns">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.