Forming in the dying summer of 2003, The Wrath was spawned in a bid to invoke a brand of music to truly call their own.

Staggering out from the neon glow of the Gold Coast Australia, The Wrath burst onto the the scene in December 2003 with their first frantic live show. The continuation of their energetic and powerful performances has seen the 5 piece gain a strong following. The band has become renowned for their frenzied stage presence and original, anthemic song writing ability.

Having endured line up changes, in recent times The Wrath has evolved into a force not to be reckoned with... and this rock ride from hell has no brakes! Fronted by Tommy Creeper's darkwave vocals laced with vintage croon, countered by the searing guitars of Spectre Deano and Carina Hellbunny Delux, grounded by the thunderous rhythms of Adm Sinz(bass) and Ryan Sticks(drums), The Wrath continue to leave legions of fans in their wake. A vast array of different personal influences among the members has ensured the bands unique and dynamic sound.

In their quest for delivering heavy music that defies labels, The Wrath have carved their own niche in the music sub-culture world that has seen them gain respect from bands and audiences alike. Sharing the stage and tearing up venues with likes of The Misfits, The Meteors, Tiger Army, Nekromantix, Good Riddance, No Use For A Name, Lagwagon, Pulley and I Killed the Prom Queen just to name a few. 2007 also saw The Wrath earn a spot on the Gold Coast Big Day Out bill along side Tool, Muse, My Chemical Romance, and many more plus the completion of the most extensive national tour undertaken by The Wrath to date.

The summer of '07 delivered the highly anticipated debut album "Tales of a Deadly Nightshade", produced by Alex Markwell (bodyjar,vanlustbader) and mastered by Leon Zervos (INXS,Midnight Oil). The release has seen The Wrath undertake and complete several national tours, through to 2010 before taking a break and shuffling the lineup for a long awaited return in 2012...


Note: Tags for the American Straight Edge Hardcore band should be changed to the correct tag - xThe Wrathx. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Wrath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.