The Foreshadowing is a gothic doom metal band from Rome, Italy.
The band was officially formed at the dawn of 2005, but the project was actually started back in 1998, from an idea of Alessandro Pace (aka Alex Vega), who involved his friends Andrea Chiodetti (guitar) and Francesco Sosto (keyboards) with the idea of starting up a new gothic doom metal band in the vein of My Dying Bride, Katatonia and Anathema, revisiting the sound of these bands in a modern key and with a personal style. Soon the trio was forced to put aside the project, as they couldn’t find the right members to fill the band up.

After a long period of other experiences in various band (Klimt 1918, Spiritual Front, Grimness), they rejoined again and found the spur to take in the old doom metal project again. Soon they were joined by drum player Jonah Padella and bass guitar player Davide Pesola, two old acquaintances of the underground metal scene in Rome. A couple of months later they engaged Marco Benevento, vocalist and mastermind of the Italian gothic metal band How Like a Winter, who was the missing link to complete the line up.

Their debut full-length, "Days of Nothing", was released during autumn 2005 and the beginning of 2006 and was mixed by Giuseppe Orlando (Novembre) at Outer Sound Studios in Rome. Days of Nothing is a concept album about an imaginary apocalypse wished by an insane ordinary man. After the releases the band signs to British cult label Candlelight Records. On 22 October 2007 Days of Nothing was issued under the historical label, receiving praise from most of the critics. Recently The Foreshadowing announced their official endorsement with Jackson Guitars USA.

In the beginning of 2010, The Foreshadowing announced the release of their second album "Oionos", whose release date was set on April 2010 and contemporary made public their signing a new deal with German label Cyclone Empire Records. In the album tracklist was included a gothic metal cover version of Russians, a famous 1980s hit by Sting.

Their third album, "Second World", was released in April 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Foreshadowing">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.