There are three artists known as The Parallax: 1) Mississauga, Ontario, Canada  2)Shrewsbury 2009 3) Vienna Austria

1) The Parallax from Mississauga, Ontario, Canada is a 4-piece progressive/melodic death metal band. It consists of Antonio Moreira (Guitars/Vocals), Derek Joson (Drums), Sean Deschenes (Bass), and Sorin SImion (Guitars). Their debut album, 'Obliquity of the Ecliptic' was released worldwide on October 23rd, 2013, and includes their 23-minute epic track 'The Reformatting'. The album has been well received, being featured in music blogs in Canada, Sweden, Russia, The USA, Japan and more. On January 9th, 2014, The Parallax released their first music video for the song 'Seventeen'. The band has shared the stage with large acts such as Protest the Hero, The Agonist, Intervals, Ever Forthright, and many more.

To stay up to date with The Parallax visit these sites:
www.theparallax.net
www.facebook.com/theparallaxband
http://theparallaxband.bandcamp.com (Download the album for FREE here)


2) The Parallax is a band inspired by folk, rock and solo acoustic artists and was formed by two singer song-writers, Fergus Mckoewn and Antony Titley in Shrewsbury. They had a few songs written and complete but never got around to recording them until early 2009 when they were at a Folk Festival. The full CD featuring 6 tracks was released in November 2009.

The duo performed multiple times at small gigs and proved popular with the crowds. They decided to draft in drummer - Sam Barlow and shortly after bassist - Jamie Rushworth. The band is currently writing band versions of the songs from the first album.

Their first concert as a band was on the 17th December 2009 at the Wakeman school's christmas concert and their latest was the 31st March 2010 at the Wakeman spring concert.

During the summer of 2010 the previous drummer left the band and was later replaced by James Parry. The Parallax now consisted of Fergus Mckeown, the rythm guitarist and lead vocalist, Antony Titley with lead guitar and backing vocals, James Parry on the drums and Jamie Rushworth on bass guitar.

Recording began in early August 2010 for the album "Super Mutant Space Monkey Mafia" which included their first semi-professionally recorded tracks mixed by Nick Whitehurst. The album was released on the 25th of August 2011. After previous stats collected from making old mixes available it was decided that the album would be put on Band Camp, and for the first week would be free. 

To download any album go to:
http://the-parallax.bandcamp.com/
http://www.youtube.com/user/TheParallaxYT


3) "The Parallax is a DJ and Producer from Austria named Katinka. She started her DJing career in 2006 in Upper Austria when electronic and rave music was becoming a household sound and pulsing hard, cutting its own way into the limelight. The Parallax immediately went from strength to strength after starting full on in Vienna, Austria and playing some of the biggest venues in the city including; Flex, Tresor, and Camera Club.

Three years later after taking the Viennese scene by storm, she decided to change locations and step in to the already abundant electronic crowd of Zurich, Switzerland. The Parallax had to fight her way to the top in more ways than one and took her place as not only a well-known DJ, but also a A-list promoter and fashion editor at one of the cities best magazines. This allowed her to pave a path of her own in a very competitive dance scene.

The Parallax is also the Co-Founder and Resident DJ of the successful night called Discodust which takes place once a month at the infamous Club Exil. She already shared the stage with artists such as Moullinex, Le Castle Vania, Defunct!, Mustard Pimp, The Young Punx, Dirty Disco Youth, IAMX, We Have Band, Tits & Clits, Tyler Noze, Riot School, Pitchtuner, and Gigi Barocco.

The Parallax' musical taste is a variation of Electro, Jackin' House and Techno with banging bass lines." --- from The Parallax official site, used with permission.

Remixes:
Kraftwerk - Boing Boom Tschak (The Parallax Remix) ... written by Kraftwerk remixed by The Parallax

Official Sites:
The Parallax on Facebook
The Parallax on Soundcloud
The Parallax on Twitter
The Parallax on Tumblr
The Parallax on YouTube
The Parallax on Last.FM

Bio used with permission; edited by Neferast on behalf of XDRecords!; 15 October 2011
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Parallax">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.