At Least Four Artists:

1) Italian Post-Rock solo project
2) House/Techno DJ & Broadcaster
3) Band
4) Jungle Act

1) The Outsider is a solo project born in 2009 in Palermo, Italy. The Outsider is Andrea Cicala and he produces music since he was 14. Throughout the years he discovered genres such as Post-Rock - Progressive and Ambient, which lead to his first mature work, "Beauty Awakens The Soul to Act", released in September 2017. In June 2018 he released his second album called "Hyeon".

2) Dub influenced House/Techno DJ, Live Performer and Producer. Legendary pirate radio/internet broadcaster and founder of Regenerate Soundsystem. Catch him LIVE on www.frequencyradio.org every Wednesday from 20.00-00.00 GMT or at his monthly club night The Drop @ Bar 54. www.myspace.com/outsider01

3) Heavily influenced by all types and genres of music The outsider decided it was time let all the words and melodies in his head work their way into a living breathing musical format.

Every instrument and vocal part is performed by the outsider and shortly the much anticipated release of his debut album decode the chaos demonstrates the broad range of styles and genre bending, which makes some of the listeners unaware Where or what direction the music will take you.

The album is available free on Last fm,Pre itunes launch in march.The album was produced in the home studio of steve Eyre's Lincolnshire home. Its overall ambition is to deliver 15 tracks which stand on their own as well as follow a journey when listened in sequence.

Risks have been taken in the musical arrangements, vocal tracks hinting tongue in cheek and angst towards todays modern world. laid back intrumentals journey into ambience and melancholy with delicately placed guitar and bass playing and those good old analogue dirty synths and vocoda's to dilute the digital into a more human lo-fi raw delivery.

"i'm tired of hearing polished perfection! i want to make music that sounds like it was made in an oily shed!" says he.. The outsider has summoned all the range of human emotion and let it out full steam, in each carefully crafted track.

4) Jungle act, the outsider. Music featured on best of jungle 95 on low price music.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Outsider">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.