Originally under the moniker of Never Before Midnight, The Burning Dogma were born in Bologna in the autumn of 2006, as a combination of previous experiences in the field of metal by Marco Zoccoletto (drums), David Sandri (Keyboards) and Maurizio Cremonini (guitars/vocals), joined by Giacomo Gurrieri (bass) and Diego Luccarini (guitars).
In 2008, after the live performance at the Black Dog Festival in Castiglione de' Pepoli (Bologna), the band felt a strong desire to bring their own compositions and musical path towards more original sounds, in accordance with the primary influences arising from each musician's personal musical background. With the birth of the first songs, the band changed name and the first internal strife kicked Sandri out of the group and made the search for a worthy successor start. Meanwhile, as a quartet, The Burning Dogma went ahead working on composition and finally came up with seven new songs, four of them with full arrangements. In the spring of 2009 Giovanni Esposito (keyboards) and Guglielmo Bagella (vocals) joined the band. After a trial period of several months, the artistic differences on how to interpret the vocal lead led to the separation from Bagella. Almost simultaneously, also Giacomo Gurrieri left the band. New sessions for researching a replacement started, and the solution was the arrival of Davide Laugelli together with the Joy Lazari, a full-time frontman. The Burning Dogma started to perform live once again, culminating with the Rimini gig @Dylan Horror Metal Pub. Unfortunately another major defection hit the band when Marco Zoccoletto decided to leave. He was then replaced by Marco De Crescenzo.
Recently the band has been busy in the production of their first official demo, which was completed in March 2012. The band is featuring Emergenza Festival 2012, and it is currently playing live gigs promoting "Cold Shade Burning".  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Burning+Dogma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.