Starting as a project and developing into a band that has been established in the Puerto Rico metal scene, playing from the smallest shows in the most remote bars, to hosting large venue record breaking shows for Puerto Rico's underground scene, The Redflux have been there and back in Puerto Rico and now have their mind set, on more. In every Way.

Formed early in 2003 as a project by Chris Olmeda, it was meant to be just a try at writing some metal based songs, to perhaps form a band later on. Soon after, he joined up with guitarist Ignacio "Iggy" Labarca (Hate Corp.) and started exchanging ideas and eventually, composed material and started building the band by now named, Redflux.

Since then the band has progressed and evolved mixing styles from metal to hardcore, writing material in both English and Spanish, and developing their sound, from guitar tone to composing material with piano, strings and right back to basics. As the music progressed with the years, the themes within the songs fluctuated from personal introspective lyrics to the socio-political; just a true life tale of the tape of our world's systematic destruction. The lyrics remind us to be weary of the power hungry and to do what must be done in times as hard as these.

Redflux's heart, in composition, and performance is and has been for the longest time Chris and Antonio Camunas, who joined the band back in early 2004 and wrote the drumming for every single song, and is also credited with co-writing songs like "Impending Doom", going beyond arranging drums.

Now the band has new blood, and old friends within it; Robert Polanco (LMC, Last Wish) on bass, Francisco Berrios (Panadoll) on guitar, and Ruben Valentín (IRA) vocals, provide Redlfux with a new more focused, more experienced environment in the band, and the heaviest and most hard hitting material yet.

Watch out for the up coming release "An Imminent Decline" out on SouthGround Records later this fall. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Redflux">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.