There are multiple bands called The Unborn.

1. A hardcoreband from the Netherlands. They released one album and a second one is already recorded. check them at http://www.alittlelessconversationalittlemoreaction.com

2. A Southern Californian quintet with a fresh approach to heavy music. Five dedicated musicians who love what they do. Their goal is to combine all of the best elements of modern progressive metal. Check them at www.myspace.com/theunborn

3. A Death Metal band from Poland.

4. Gothic Metal from Portugal! THE UNBORN, 14 years of darkness and revelations...

"The Unborn" was formed in a cold and cloudy winter day of 1996, when Asmodeo and Astaroth, both fallen from God's grace and who shared an ancestral friendship dating from previous lives, decided to dedicate their souls to a dark musical project. Bearing the condemnation of those who cannot be redeemed, they started searching for lost souls to complete the band's line-up.

The first soul to join the project was bassist Fabio Guri (ex-Deimos) and the first songs, with infernal and brutal overtones, began to take shape, influenced by the most extreme music of that period. With this first line-up, a demo was recorded. This obscure symphony includes an intro and three songs, featuring guitars, bass, drums, keyboards and guttural vocals. This primitive piece of melodic insanity was never commercially available and became a legendary and mysterious cult item, only known by the founding members of the band. This material was destined to be revealed to the world only after the completion of “The Second Birth” trilogy, as was predicted by Baron Lacot, who guides our destiny with his dark prophecies.

Later in time, Astaroth and Asmodeo received the influence of the new trends coming from Europe. Bands like Theatre of Tragedy, Tiamat, The Gathering and The 3rd and the Mortal were  big source of inspiration and helped to shape the new sound of the band with the addition of instruments like violins, cellos, pianos and a female soprano voice. This particular mixture of brutal obscurity and delicate textures turned out to be the perfect vehicle for the band's melancholic and rebellious poetry. With this change in style and heading for a completely new musical horizon, it became clear that Fabio wasn't up to part and left the band.

In the beginning of 1997 Astaroth and Asmodeo, inspired by the prophecies of Baron Lacot, began to work on new material, composing and recording what later the first full lenght CD of the band became: “The Second Birth Pt I”. The new songs were composed for two guitars, bass, drums, cello, piano and keyboards. In the vocal treatments, Astaroth adopted an opera singing style besides the guttural screams and a female soprano was also incorporated.

Due to the complexity of this new material, a stable line-up couldn't be achieved for playing in a live situation. In this period, many musicians were auditioned but none of them proved to be quite prepared to receive the message of The Unborn's beautiful darkness in their hearts. As a result, the band became a studio-only project and recorded their material with session musicians.

But things were about to change when in mid-1997 Storax (bass), Majo Di Pascuo (keys, piano and synthetized cello) and Alicia del Cerro joined the band. “The Second Birth Pt I” was finally recorded in its entirety and was sold at Parque Rivadavia in the years 1998 and 1999. It consisted of nine songs distributed in seven tracks, with a total running time of 59 minutes.

During the year 2000, Astaroth, Asmodeo and Storax worked hard with the promotion of the album on metal radio shows and selling it through specialized record stores and by mail. Exequiel Nuï¿½ez, journalist and visionary, who at that time worked for Epopeya (the nï¿½1 metal magazine in Argentina), interviewed the band and wrote a favorable review of the album that helped to promote The Unborn in Buenos Aires and the rest of the country. This is how the message was widely spread for the first time...

In 2001, the creative core of the band consisted of Astaroth, Asmodeo and Storax. The latter, having joined the fraternity of the damned and by accepting the wisdom of the pact in his heart, which provided a prosperous poetic proficiency, was a transcendental factor in discovering the occult-oriented lyrical style that was further developed.

During the year 2002, Astaroth, under the influence of a child's shadow, who whispered melodies in his mind, had a spiritual retirement far away from the world of light, and the songs which were to be included on the next album were revealed to him. They consisted of 8 chapters, based on a platform made of the same instrumentation used in the first album.

In January of 2003, The Unborn began the rehearsals to get the new material. The recording sessions for “The Second Birth Pt II” took place in the period between May of 2003 and December of 2004. In this new incarnation, the following members joined the band: Ramiro Escobar (piano and synth), Aradia (vocals) and Fernando de Lucï¿½a (lead guitars). But the defining change in the history of the band was undoubtedly marked by Adramalek, who took the duties of management and, most importantly, of spiritual leadership.

On the 1st of January of 2005, the band began the rehearsals for its first concert ever, which took place in April, at Centro Cultural “Espacio Urbano”, with great response from the audience. In that same year, the band played with bands like Berenice, Solskin, Oniria, Bloodparade and Eva, among others, promoting the demo of the forthcoming second album. In this period, many vocal parts were re-recorded more professionally.

In 2006, The Unborn had the honor to be the supporting act for bands such as The Gathering, Leaves Eyes and Atrocity. Subsequently, a new change in the line-up took place: the new members were Juan Manuel (lead guitar) and David (piano, synths), later re-baptized as Dissaor and Elladï¿½n respectively.

In november 2006, "The Second Birth Pt II" was finally released alongside a repressing of the first album "The Second Birth Pt I", which included two bonus tracks. Both CDs are presented in a high quality Digipack and are available through local record stores.



During 2007 The Unborn, had the privilege of being the exclusive support band to play with The Gathering and Epica in Bs As, On March 21 and 22, April 30 respectively, realizing with posteriority to these Shows the first tours of the band along the country Also will start the composicition and the first takes of the songs that would be part of " The Second Birth Pt III ",
the album that close the Trilogy of The Unborn.



In 2008 we initiate the reform and equipment of the new recording studio of the Band, baptized " 3er paño Records ". The same one was inaugurated on May 2, 2008, with the recording of the songs that will be part of "Principhia Mathematica", the fourth album of the Band that was edited by the "2M" label in July, 2009.
During whole 2009 The unborn will be presenting live the songs of "Principhia Mathematica" and November 15 will be performing at the first Doom Gothic metal festival in Argentina, together with Moonspell and Tiamat.

During 2010 we will begin with the new material recording, that will be part of the next album, staying a long way to walk, until the Baron Lacot profecie`s, enter on its final stage of his revelations in THE UNBORN`s life, in the Second Birth eves. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Unborn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.