3 bands exist under this name (check also Stone):

1. Serbian Black Metal band 
2. American Experimental/Avantgarde band
3. Hungarian Progressive Metal band

1. The dark monumental cult of The Stone was born in 1996. At first the darkness was spreading under the different band name, known as STONE TO FLESH. February '97, first demo called "Serbian Woods" was recorded followed by first live appearances. "Killed by the Sun" demo was taped a year after and band was reached by Greek label Demonion Productions which asked if they were willing to release both demo materials on tape version and soon after the first official release, titled "Unveiled Evil" was darkly celebrated. In winter '99/'00, band recorded "Some Wounds Bleed Forever", first full-length manifest which was later released by CCP Records. 

After some crucial changes concerning the band name and due to misunderstandings with CCP Records band signed to Solistitium Productions/Wolfcult Productions and in spring of 2002 released "Slovenska krv", 2nd full-length and first one under The Stone banner. Meanwhile "Tragom Hromoga Vuka" CD was out in March '03, presenting two brand new songs and both demo materials included.

In winter '03/'04, "Zakon Velesa", 3rd full-length album was recorded and released few months after. This marks the end of cooperation with Solistitium Records.

In December 2004, "Čujete li, smeju nam se mrtvi…" EP was released through Czech label Eclipse Productions (now Long Ago Records), consisting of two completely new tracks.

August '05, The Stone signed a deal with cult German label Folter Records and by the end of June '06, 4th full-length album "Magla" was released. Few months later, a live 7" split EP with Czech Inferno was out on Undercover Records, as well as split DVD with May Result on Pagan Flames Productions (US). During the next couple of years band was very active with live performances, but having one more release ahead - re-pressing of the debut record on Serbian label Grom Records, this time with different artwork, different album name, two bonus songs and video. 

In winter of '08 The Stone entered "Draft" studio to record 4 songs for its first 10" MLP entitled "Old Wounds Bleed Misanthropy". Two old songs are re-recorded, as well as some cover versions of Slayer and Master's Hammer, to be released on Diabolist Services Cult (US) during '09. Czech label Zero Budget Production has released first and cult demo "Serbian Woods" on limited 7" picture vinyl and also Folter Records released a limited vinyl version of now The Stone's classic 2nd album "Slovenska krv". 

Band was very active with live gigs during '08 and in October the 4th enters the studio in order to record 5th full-length album with apocalyptic title "Umro" which will be unleashed in April '09 through Folter Records. This is by far the most mature release by the band and definitely the strongest material up to date. At the same time, two more songs were recorded and used for a release of split 7" EP titled "The Ancestral Alliance" with Italian band Kult. Also German mini tour with Lugubre is settled for the end of April as well as more live rituals later this year which will follow the "Umro" cult. Until the next sacrilegious manifest … HELL!


2. The Stone is a Experimental/Avantgarde project of John Zorn, Dave Douglas, Mike Patton, Bill Laswell, Rob Burger and Ben Perowsky. The Stone underline, that the project is not for the profit, only for the music itself.

Discography:

2005: The Stone - Issue One

Website: http://www.thestonenyc.com/


3. The Stone is also a Hungarian Progressive Metal band, which has released their only full length album 'Visitor in the Paradise' in 2002. The band was a side project of Cross Borns and Ideas musicians. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Stone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.