There are four bands called The Painkillers two of whose tracks are in the top tracks on this page - 

The Painkillers bring together the battered acoustic guitar of Joe Bludge and the massive rock n roll beats of James Baker. A fixture of the Perth scene, The Painkillers have played more gigs in that city than any other act since forming there in 2005. Their sound began with the common ground between Bludge’s love of proto-rock and Baker’s punk-tinted take on rock n roll, but quickly evolved into a genuine garage audacity that draws upon other influences at whim.

They have released two previous albums to substantial acclaim, Drunk on a Train and Love Cancer. Their third album, Feel the Pain, due out in mid 2011 through Off the Hip Records, is described by the band as their finest recording yet. The promo single lifted from the forthcoming album, “Jump your Ship/Same” enjoyed solid support form community radio across the country and positive street press, with Drum Sydney describing it as “perfect in its way” and Drum Perth “impressive”. The band will support the release with a series of local and interstate shows.

The Painkillers have a WAM award for best punk band making James Baker the first WAM hall-of-famer to subsequently win a category award, and have supported such acts as The Lime Spiders, Bon Iver, The Surrealists and The Bad Seeds. James Baker played drums also for The Victims, The Scientists, Hoodoo Gurus and Beasts of Bourbon.

An other is the LA rock band fronted by Cherish Alexander with Drummer Billy Baker, lead guitarist Curtis Hooker, bassist Matt Boyd and keyboard player Marco Monticello.

The third is a less well known group based in Cavan, Ireland.
When The Painkillers formed in February 2001 each member was bringing ,on average, 25 years of gigging experience to the band. They had played pubs, clubs and dances throughout the length and breadth of Ireland, and beyond.

There is also a blues band called The Painkillers based out of Urbana, Illinois, US

Sources: www.myspace.com/thepainkillers (Australian)
 www.thepainkillers.com (American)
 www.thepainkillers.ie (Irish) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Painkillers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.