Holly Miranda met Alex Lipsen in 2004 and something clicked. At the time, Holly was playing solo, and Alex was used to being a producer who enjoyed long walks around his studio and talking a lot. Working in an intimate studio environment yielded much experimentation and enjoyment, which is obvious upon first listening to Comfortably Uncomfortable. This Scott Norton (Early Man, CoCo Rosie) engineered debut glimmers with songs about unrequited love, as Holly evokes Billie Holiday and even covers The Smiths.  One of the albums brightest gems is "Lay Around," recently featured on Showtime's The L Word. Enter Josh Abbott. Originally hired as a drummer, this redhead quickly branched out to co-singer/songwriter, upping the rock element substantially. Together the new trio found a unique sound, mixing Holly's traditional roots, Alex's trip-hop reveries, and Josh's post-punk sensibilities. Night after night on stage, The Jealous Girlfriends developed a sonic cornucopia that was as appealing as it was poignant. The new songs were powerful, but did not lack fragility. In The Deli Magazine, Maria Schettino wrote "Holly's voice is a subtle rasp with all the elegance of a fine chocolate wrapped in luminous foil. She is arresting." 


        After a brief tour of the midwest in the summer of 2005, it was time to document the evolution. Wisely, they returned to their intimate studio atmosphere, tapping longtime collaborator Dan Long (Fatales, Kevin Devine) to produce. In the meantime, TJG's have developed a small but  strong word-of-mouth following. With the new record complete, the world must embrace The Jealous Girlfriends. Witness clever melodies that float over harmonious and rhythmic epics like "Machines," recently mixed by Dave Sitek (TV On The Radio, Yeah Yeah Yeahs). They have mined their influences for only the finest treasures, somehow conjuring up Edith Piaf on a Ouija board at Blur's house. With soaring vocals that scratch your heart like a back, decadent instrumentation and a myriad of emotions, the new album takes chances. With their video for the new song "How Now" available on their website, this band is announcing their arrival. And just in time...

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Jealous+Girlfriends">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.