The Allseeing I is a Death Metal band from Oslo, Norway.
(Not to be confused with The All Seeing I)


The Allseeing I was created by André Forsmo (Vocals) and Rune Henrichsen (Guitar) back in 1993 and Mads Gullbekkhei (Drums) joined in 1995. It was not until 2001 that the line up of what is now The Allseeing I really took form, when Erlend Caspersen (Bass) from Blood Red Throne and Skjalg Reithaug (Guitar) joined and ripped apart the old music of the band and tore out a new spine-ripping, thrash guttering sound. The last pieces of an eight year old puzzle finally found it's place. The band experienced a radical musical development as the musicians came from different musical backgrounds. That is what defines the original and unique sound of The Allseeing I. Each member draws the others into a musical limit that can only be drawn further and further. This is how the songs are made; out of pure spite! Just when you thought you had heard it all, The Allseeing I will challenge you into a new genre of death metal.

In 2002 they recorded their first demo called Brutalunacy. The sound can be described as brutal innovative death metal, with elements of jazz and pain. And having only played two live shows in 2002, the band was accepted for the Inferno Festival in Oslo in 2003. Here they performed with bands such as Opeth, Vader, Necrophagia, Immortal and Entombed.

In August 2003, The Allseeing I recorded a promo-EP called Avatara. The tracklist included three songs from the old demo Brutalunacy and two new songs. With reviews like: the band literally punctured my speakers with the opening song "Punctured Skin" 4,5/6 – musiq.no, personally I would compare this to Behemoth and Nile, only The Allseeing I obtains a more obvious song structure… 7/10 – metal-norge.no and this is the most exciting norwegian death metal I’ve ever heard – heavymetal.no, The Allseeing I had two more live shows in Oslo this year with Cadaver and Enslaved among others.

After a few concerts in 2004, The Allseeing I went back to Zenith Studios to record a new promo-EP, Jagannâtha. The new EP contains four new killing tracks and shows that the intensity and brutality of their sound can be drawn even further. Later that year they played at the Southern Discomfort Festival in Kristiansand, Norway and with death metal legends Cannibal Corpse and Spawn Of Possession at John Dee in Oslo.

The Allseeing I is now signed to Norwegian Sublife Productions. Final touches are being made on the recording of the debut album which will see the light of day soon.

For more information and free downloads of the demos, go to the official website: http://www.theallseeingi.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Allseeing+I">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.