1."We’re not hippies, but like a ‘60s band we want to bring a heightened awareness to global issues. We’ve traveled all over the world and everywhere there are similarities in people. It is one world," Dan Shwetz, The Last Supper.

For those with an appetite for substance and deft musical style, The Last Supper delivers a tasty buffet of hard-driving tracks on Zero Degrees - Order into Chaos, the group’s newest release on their label, VAMP Records.  

Bassist Scot Herndon and drummer Jason Woodley provide a solid foundation for Shwetz’s searing vocals and Peter Walker’s weaving guitar. While guided by a range of musical influences from hip-hop, to blues and rock, the recording is also flavored with the Egyptian spice of percussionist Diaa Tass. 

The album took almost four years to complete and portions were recorded in Mama Joe’s in L.A., Little Chicago Studio, Ottawa, Studios Piccolo, Montreal, Pharaohs Audio Media in Cairo, and EMAC Studios in London. Produced by Shwetz, the album’s mixed credits include Danny Brodbeck (Ghandarva’s, Headstrong), with preproduction time spent in L.A. with Grammy producer Mark Sparks (Salt & Peppa, Madonna, Will Smith). Key contributions were made by a number of Middle Eastern musicians including Ahamad Nasr (keys, percussion, and accordion), Assmaa Elmnawr (vocals) and Hesham Niaz (arrangements). "We actually developed it in 13 studios," explains Shwetz, adding that “0 degrees Order into Chaos” is the result of the bands “nine years experience.”

Founded by Shwetz and Walker in 1996 while attending the University of Western Ontario, The Last Supper was a name chosen to symbolize a gathering of friends.  After graduation, the band decided they wanted to travel, using their music as the vehicle. The band spent time in Los Angeles, played the college circuit throughout Canada and the U.S. and released its first album Beginning of the End in 1996. From that album came the video for the single Ignorance which was featured countless times on MuchMusic’s indie spotlight. In 1998-99 the group released a second album, Lifeline. The title track was released as a single and made the Canadian radio charts.  To date, The Last Supper’s music has received generous radio airplay in North America, Europe and the Middle East. The band’s music was also featured on a series of extreme sports videos that sold 150,000 units in the U.S. and Europe.
 
The group has played more than 700 live shows across four continents, and played with acts including Iron Maiden, Joe Cocker, Peter Frampton, Thin Lizzy, Our Lady Peace, Slash’s Snakepit, The Tea Party, Ministry, and Queensryche. They have appeared at numerous famous rock clubs and European festivals including the Milkweg in Amsterdam, House of Blues (New Orleans), the Whiskey-A-Go-Go and Roxy (L.A), Download Festival (UK), and BosPop (NL). Various other international shows include a stadium benefit concert in Turkey in 2000, and dates in Sharm El Sheikh and Cairo, Egypt.

The band has played over 100 shows and taken 5 trips overseas in the last 2 years. They have recently returned from a European tour, and are scheduled to play several top festivals in Europe for the summer of 2009. 

The Last Supper was picked as one of the best 20 new bands on the planet for 2006 by Classic Rock Magazine from the U.K., and has been included on a compilation CD which was distributed by the magazine.

The band has also become part of a reality television show called Band Without Borders.  The new series features life on the road with The Last Supper as they attempt to set the world record for the most countries toured by a musical group.  The band will be touring 100 countries over the next three years. Filming has already started on the project, with  17 countries completed so far in 2008, and another 24 countries to be visited  in 2009.  Plans are in place to distribute the series internationally.

With close to half a million hits on the band website since the start of the 0o tour, thousands of offstage albums sold, media coverage in many countries, and the new reality show, The Last Supper feels it is finally ready to go mainstream in 2009 and make the band an international household name.


Representation

Management - Rob Palmen, (31) 654672867
Outside Europe – Vamp Records, +1 613 284 9860
Legal – Paul Sanderson, +1 416 971 6616
Booking Germany - A.S.S Concert and Promotion, (49) 4067569936 - Jorg Duseau
Booking Netherlands, Belgium - Bold Brothers, (32) 14618728
Booking France- Julien Pagnon – K Productions  (33) 130522480
Booking Canada / International - (1) 613 284 9860

2. Punk band from Connecticut.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Last+Supper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.