The Teskey Brothers is an Australian soul blues band formed in 2008.

The band came to be from seeking blues and roots of the greats from an early age when exposed to musicians such as Peter Green, Otis Redding and Ray Charles. The boys would watch closely in awe as their teacher, Sam Linton Smith, performed at St. Andrews pub on a Sunday, the very same St. Andrews in which Josh and Sam Teskey set up to busk as boys. Thus began the musical convergence of Warrandyte Blues-Soul and everything in between. And when brought to Melbourne CBD, people actually move to live music – a phenomenon that’s camera worthy.

Josh Teskey fronts the band with his smooth vocals and rhythm guitar. Evocative of Donny Hathaway, Teskey reaches out to play with his audience, ushering them through the emotional room of each song’s mind with airs of love, ardor and desire; creating an atmosphere you thought you were born too late to ever experience.

Joined by Sam Teskey on lead guitar and backing vocals, these brothers will have you rocking from side to side until you’re dancing, and then giggling at the absolute sublimity of the moment. Teskey will have you pink cheeked and stress free with his flirtatious solos and flattering, fatherly tones.

Along with the Teskeys, you’ll find the unflustered Brendon Love on bass. His instinctive and cool, calm and collected nature is what drives the hips of the audience and transports the energy in and out of high spirit to deep soul. Love is love, and love is bass.

Liam Gough completes the ensemble with his metronomic technique and veteran beat keeping. Gough’s talent effectuates the amalgamation of funk and blues, inspiring the music itself by teasing the fluidity with his heartfelt punctilious pulse. This drummer might as well be the only drummer you know.

Through gifts bestowed upon the family (and farm-ily) band, such as; BB King, Albert Collins, Jimi Hendrix and Marvin Gaye, they share with us city dwellers dynamics within a live sound that only clean country air and years of diverse varieties of live gigging can provide, and I’m not just saying that because I’m wearing overalls and ate my chicken.

The Teskey Brothers are an important affirmation of something we have always loved and something we hope to never loose – Home, Rhythm, and Blues. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+teskey+brothers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.