Constantines are an indie rock band from Guelph, Ontario, Canada.

The band was formed by Steve Lambke, Bryan Webb, Doug MacGregor, and Dallas Wehrle in 1999, following in the wake of the emotional hardcore band Shoulder. 

Their style has been described as "art-punk," and they have been compared to a mixture of bands like The Clash, Fugazi, Bruce Springsteen, and Nick Cave. They relocated to London, Ontario and then to Toronto, where in 2001 they released their self-titled first album, which was extremely popular on campus radio and was nominated for a Juno Award for Best Alternative Album.

In 2002, the original members were joined by keyboardist Evan Gordon, after which they released The Modern Sinner Nervous Man EP in April 2002 on Suicide Squeeze. Gordon left soon afterwards, and was replaced by Will Kidman.

Despite signing an international deal with Sub Pop, the band ensured that their original home, Three Gut, would continue to release their albums in Canada. In 2003 they released the Nighttime Anytime EP, as well as their second full-length, Shine a Light.

In 2005, The Constantines embarked upon a cross-Canada tour with The Weakerthans, called The Rolling Tundra Revue, a feat which is set to be repeated by both acts in 2009.

2005 also saw the release of the band's third full-length release, Tournament of Hearts, which was to be the final Constantines release handled by Three Gut, which folded shortly afterwards. In early 2006, Blue Fog Records released a vinyl only split-album with The Constantines performing four Neil Young covers, while The Unintended did four Gordon Lightfoot songs.

In April 2008, The Constantines released their fourth album Kensington Heights on their new label, Arts & Crafts.


The Constantines' guitarist Steve Lambke has also recorded under the name Baby Eagle, whilst Will Kidman has recorded as Woolly Leaves. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Constantines">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.