The Nameless is a Polish band formed of other bands into one singular group created in late November and early December of 2008 in Gostynin, Poland. Their basic idea was to combine a group playing hard, fast, melodic and technical hardcore. In an attempt to encompass the broader elements of metal music. Despite the relatively short length of their formation the line up has changed several times, but the core of the band since then has consisted of two founders and one creator simultaneously: guitarist and leader  Jaroslaw Nyckowski, and drummer Lukasz Tomczak. Subsequently bassist James Kubasiński, vocalist Matthew "Shnapps" Koziorowski and guitarist Matthew Prusak Plonsk entered the ranks of the band to be there permanently, substituting their predecessors. All band members have played in other bands. With the stabilization of current and former band members, The Nameless were able to move on with the concerts. In August and September the band recorded tracks for their debut album called "Unnamed Reflections". Since October there have been works connected with putting out the CD and from early December album is available. Now, The Nameless is playing gigs to promote the material and also band is looking for a label to enable widespread promotion all over the world. See you at the show & stay heavy!

********

The Nameless are a California Electronica Duo formed in January 2008 by Carvin Knowles and Adam Pike. For over a decade, Knowles and Pike had remained the nameless producers on a variety of music projects for film, TV, and record release. 

In February 2008, The Nameless began recording their first album "Pareidolia." Recording for exactly one year, "Pareidolia" was mixed and ready for release by August of 2008. 

The global economic collapse of 2008 delayed commercial release of Pareidolia by five years as smaller record labels disappeared. In late 2012, the duo began talks with Southern California record label, DMAFT records to release the album. Pareidolia was released on 4 July 2013 on DMAFT Records and is available now from the Apple iTunes Music Store.

On Pareidolia, The Nameless use vintage analog synthesizers, backwards guitars and pianos, theremin and a full brass-section to create an episodic theme-park ride of electronic dance music. The Nameless bounce effortlessly from House to Nu-Disco to Electro to Trip-Hop to Nu-Funk, Breaks and Cinematic Beats ranging from 99 to 120 bpm. 

On the day after recording the album wrapped, Knowles moved from Los Angeles to Auckland, New Zealand. Many of the song lyrics reflect his impending move, including the words for "Ocean," "Only What You Do" and the Alice In Wonderland-inspired "Down the Rabbit Hole." 

Other songs on the album include a reference to Liza Richardson's music show on L.A. radio station KCRW (Get Out The Bass) and a brief mention of the exploits of legendary DJ 10¢ Bin (Ten Cent Bin). One song title is taken from a lyric in Parliament's "Chocolate City" (WEFUNK).

After recording "Pareidolia," Knowles and Pike have namelessly recorded more albums for commercial release and film. Knowles' electronic music appears briefly in a scene from Tyler Perry's "Good Deeds." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Nameless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.