There are three bands by the name of "The Carnival":

1) Janis Hansen (10 October 1942 – 4 October 2017) formed The Carnival in late 1967 with fellow ex-Sérgio Mendes & Brasil '66 band member Jose Soares, along with ex-Murmaids/Kim Fowley protégé Terry Fischer ("Popsicles and Icicles"). The Carnival's Brasil '66-meets-The-Fifth-Dimension sound was largely the brainchild of legendary producer and engineer Bones Howe. Bones gathered L.A.'s finest "Wrecking Crew" studio musicians (Hal Blaine, Larry Knechtel, etc.) for the Carnival's sole album.  

2) The Carnival is a Finnish hardcore punk from Finland. Their music is a mix of old school  thrash metal and hardcore punk. - http://www.thecarnivalband.net/

3) The Carnival is a dark cabaret band from the English Midlands, UK, formed by Wendell (piano, vocals) and Bekki (drums) in 2005.

With a name reflective of its sound, The Carnival performs a unique blend of music and storytelling, propelling the audience into a strange world of fairy tales, nightmares, and dark cabaret.

Fronted by Wendell, an accomplished singer, songwriter and classical pianist, along with drummer Bekki, the dynamic duo have conjured up an act reaching beyond the scope of conventional rock bands, with their quirky mix of enchanting music and dramatic lyrics.

Having met in Paris in 2005, the unlikely union of two very different talents somehow complemented each other perfectly; the puzzle pieces finally falling into place a little over a year ago with the band’s formation.

Despite having formed so recently, The Carnival have already produced a diverse and theatrical set. During their first week of live performance, the band won the Lichfield Livewire Battle of the Bands competition, resulting in a slot in the Fuse Tent at The Beacon Park Festival on 14 July 2007.

Having been launched into local success, The Carnival went on to record their debut EP "Kill Off The Show" which was released in the UK at a special Halloween show 31 October 2007, and released on iTunes January of the following year.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Carnival">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.