THE VELVET HANDS“full of bolshy spirit” (NME)

With various comparisons to“early Rolling Stones”, new Cornwall/London rockers,The Velvet Hands are, according to feedback so far;“a wonderful mess, a soundtrack for demolition.”(Tom Robinson, BBC 6 Music) with“snarling vocals and intense riffs” (GigSlutz) that is“full of bolshy spirit.”(NME). Very much looking and sounding the part, they encompass elements of The Strokes,The Stones and the Clash in their Garage rock n roll story telling.

There is swagger in their tunes but sufficient depth in what they're saying to be taken seriously. They may be fresh faced, but these are not nursery rhymes. The band revealed themselves to the general public in Autumn 2015 with the self released double ACD &download'Games' / 'Who Cares'.

Born to be on a stage, their youthful adrenaline is tinged with their small but lively following as part of the show. Being licensed to thrill got them sharing stages with the likes of Yak and The Bluetones, while collecting a healthy amount of very cool festival slots.

The Velvet Handsmade an impression on 2016. In March,'Habit'(JamX Recordings digital) was a Track Of The Week on influential music site Little Indie Blogs and Video Of The Day on another, God Is In The TV.

For April's Record Store Day, they released'Trains'/'Curtains' for classic alternative music label, Easy Action Records. The 300 white 7” vinyls sold out on the day. Hard work and play achieved that, starting with eight hours in the studio, then an #RSD16 Eve gig with local peers, The Isabelles, in Falmouth followed by a celebratory piss up. Somehow they managed to be up and at 'em on Record Store Day itself for a 7.45am launch (!) gig at Music Nostalgia Record Shop in Truro, then a Source FM Radio interview before another #RSD16 show in Tywardreath that same day.

Days later was their first London headline show, with The Isabelles as guests. TVH not only made new friends instantly (Electric Owls Films were in the room and recorded impromptu live sessions) but also packed the East End's Urban Bar, and a few days later added Steve Lamacq, of BBC Radio 6 Music, to the key radio shows – at home and abroad - picking up on their raw and engaging sound.

Summer began with rising star film maker,Callum Scott-Dyson,(who has worked with fellow up and comers, Coquin Migale and The Au Revoirs to name a few) choosing one of their songs for a cinematic short. Already well received, music reviews and radio play wise,‘Curtains Closed’is the flip side of 'Trains’; and shows a very different side to the band’s writing.

In Autumn, they headed off on their a Cornwall Calling tour (and were lead track on the compilation album of that name). Starting at Boardmasters Festival where BBC Introducing exclaimed their set as “frankly awesome” and calling in in at Tate Modern on the way, it was a genuine triumph. There will always be music fans who get off on guitar bands.

The Velvet Handsended November as main support to Faers at renowned club, This Feeling, and picked up a GigSlutz Track Of The Day preview for'Trains'along the way;“we could be witnessing the emergence of another great British band. Jaw droppingly good.”

They round off their first year with a bout of prolific song writing and a night of punky, live, Christmas carnage in Cornwall. In February 2017, The Velvet Hands new single 'I Don't Mind' will be released on Easy Action Records as the band take things to the next level. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Velvet+Hands">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.