The Ready Set is the solo project of 25 year old Jordan Witzigreuter, started November 17th, 2007.

Born and raised in Fort Wayne, Indiana, his interest in music formed when he began playing drums at the age of 10. He says that he came home one day and his mom told him that she had signed him up for drum lessons. He states that those lessons are the main reasons he is where he is in music today. By the age of 14 he was playing in bands, playing drums while getting more familiar with other instruments, and by the age of 16 he was touring in them. He later found a different outlet for his creativity through writing lyrics and music in an acoustic duo, which eventually led to the formation of The Ready Set. He was a member of a ska band, "Take Sides", an acoustic band, "brideandgroom" and a hardcore band, "Saints Never Surrender" before creating The Ready Set in the fall of 2007.

During the summer of ‘07, Jordan wrote a few songs and kept them to himself, as his main focus was the acoustic duo he was a part of. When the other member left to pursue a different career, Jordan decided to take the songs he had started, finish them up, and put together a Myspace page just for fun. In January of 2008, he released his first EP “Syntax and Bright Lights”, which was completely written and recorded in his basement. He soon after began writing for his second release, a full-length titled “Tantrum Castle”, also recorded in his basement.

Shortly after his high school graduation, he began touring in other bands, which made it clear to him where his heart was: The Ready Set. In July of 2008 he released “Tantrum Castle” and began touring full-time as The Ready Set. His live performances have evolved greatly since his early days, changing from a two-man show with keys, vocals, and a computer, to a complete full-band show with bass, drums, and lights. Witzigreuter says that his first performance for The Ready Set was at a coffee shop (The Mocha Lounge) where he worked in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Since then, The Ready Set has toured with numerous bands, including a supporting slot on a full US tour with Boys Like Girls, both The Bamboozle and Bamboozle Left, the Bamboozle Roadshow, the MTV VMA Tour, as well as many smaller tours.

The Ready Set has also made performances on MTV on multiple occasions, including an appearance on MTV's TJ Search Live Finale and being the "One to Watch" on MTV's 10 on Top. Witzigreuter has also been featured twice on MTV's Buzzworthy: once on December 11, 2009 as an up and coming artist, and again the following year on September 7, 2010, complete with an interview video and a live performance video.

Throughout multiple self-booked tours, The Ready Set has continued to prove itself as a show worth seeing as well as hearing with it’s abundant energy and emphasis on showmanship. In November 2009, Witzigreuter signed with Decaydance Records and Sire Records, both subsidiary labels of Warner Bros. Records. He released his first full–length studio album, I'm Alive, I'm Dreaming, on June 15, 2010.

The lead single, "Love Like Woe" has reached #27 on the Billboard Hot 100, #15 on the Billboard pop chart, and #15 on the Mediabase Top 40 Radio chart. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Ready+Set">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.