This band was the brain child of two metalheads Neil Hixson and Jason Jacoby. The name itself was something Neil had made up long ago and it kinda stuck with him through the years. After approaching Eric Baumann and Steve Gover to round out the group the jam began. Born of the lust for metal and for the thrill of the jam this group of guys and a drum machine began what was to become the hearlded band "The Reefer Hut". With Jacoby and Neil going to ICB(International College of Broadcasting) and having 2 songs already finished we were approached by Decay guitarist Harold Burton. Given two weeks to get ready for our first live show our noses were to the grindstone. After the smoke from the jam room cleared the first album "Stoned to Death" was born. On Friday, March 24th, 1995 the wrath began at a small bar in the Oregon District called Hummers. Many changes were to come twisting and forming the band into many different sounds and directions. The drum machine was not what we wanted to begin with. Though reliable, and it never missed a beat, we wanted a live drummer added to the mix. Enter Mike Ahlers. Mike was a busy young drummer with great skills. His addition made the HUT a force to be reckoned with. The next change would be the departure of Steve Gover and the joining of Jimmy C. Jimmy brought a more hardcore flavor to the group with his pounding guitar riffs. Somewhere in there the addition of Shawn Spivey(backing vocals/raps/bongos) was to add yet another dimension to the band. After a time of kicking ass Jimmy C. and Mike Ahlers left the band in '99. Another huge change was to take place within the band. This time the change was to be not only the lineup but the music itself. Experimental Metal/Rapcore was the name it was given by some of the band members. The newest and last known line-up would include the additions of Brian Harris(drums), Adam Baumann(vocals), and Jason Helman(guitars). The music created through the years of THE REEFER HUT's existence has inspired bands and fans for a long time. In some circles the mention of the HUT brings back memories of brutal riffage and shows with extreme intensity and stage presence. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Reefer+Hut">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.