The Twisted Tale of THE ROAD VIKINGS....

Dan Bryant, Oakland, CA vocalist and shredding guitarist/songwriter, is the leader of the Road Vikings and a journeyman in the world of metal. Dan’s musical debut, in his typical trial-by-fire fashion, was as last-minute replacement vocalist for Jason Becker (David Lee Roth band) and Marty Friedman (Megadeth) 's renowned band CACOPHONY, in front of hundreds of rabid, unforgiving metal fans at the legendary metal club The Stone in San Francisco. With minimal knowledge of the lyrics and no time to prepare, Dan tapped his improvisational skills and adapted on the fly, salvaging the gig from the flames and wowing the crowd. But that initial gig was only one battle in a very long war. 

Dan Bryant soon was making the rounds as a vocalist in the L.A. demo recording grind, appearing as a member of thrash metal pioneers, Hexx, on the Shrapnel Records release ' Under The Spell '. Yet Dan could not find satisfaction as a hired gun, and just when he grew weary of the fight, Japanese shred sensation and old friend, Hideaki Nakama called to snatch him up for the band HELL 'N' BACK. They played for over 10,000 fans at the legendary Budokan Hall in Tokyo, as well as recorded some quality metal. But Dan’s desire to develop his own band led him back home to the East Bay in order to realize his vision of a biker metal band blasting down a Northern California road on a '57 Iron Head chopper. Now it was time to find the soldiers...

The band went through a dozen drummers before snatching up the hard-hitting Jasson Burt by pure luck. Bass player extraordinaire Lisa Tonra soon joined the fold, lending her considerable chops to The Road Vikings. Jasson's phenomenal time-keeping skills and Lisa’s bulletproof bass licks provide the solid foundations for their leader, and multi - helmeted song crafter and fretburner. Veteran guitarist Brian Rountree was then added, bringing his considerable rhythm chops, shredding dual leads and blistering solos to the mix.

But there's more: namely an amazing record that must not, and WILL not, be ignored. The full-length debut record by The Road Vikings, produced and expertly mixed by noted knob-twirler Vincent Wojno (TESTAMENT, MACHINE HEAD, TROUBLE), is the end result of this mad journey. This disc a world-class metal recording:  killer sound, unshakeable musicianship, and engaging songwriting. Ten songs of brotherhood, war, conquest, freedom, and the real-life hazards of being a modern-day pirate- authored by someone who has lived it.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Road+Vikings">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.