There are two bands called The Race, one hailing from Chicago, USA, and the other from Reading, England.

1) The Race (US) released their fourth full length album "Ice station" in 2007 on Flameshovel Records.  Indie darlings The Race came together in late 1999 when drummer Kevin Duneman left Chisel Drill Hammer. Duneman, Craig Klein (vocals/guitar) and Steve Art (guitar/vocals) worked on The Race's melodic pop style in their native Chicago throughout the rest of the year; A self-titled EP appeared before the year's end and Chicago Ruins Everything marked the band's full-length debut in mid-2000. During this time, Duneman also worked with the likes of Slacker, Ativin, and Telefon Tel Aviv. The Race issued their sophomore effort, The Perfect Gift in fall 2002. Bassist Jeremy Parker joined The Race before the end of the year. The Rose EP appeared in spring 2004.

2) When The Race (UK) released their debut album "Be Your Alibi" in 2006, the acclaim it met with was positive and across the board. They were quickly tacked onto NME club tours, toured the UK and Europe with the likes of Cooper Temple Clause and Seafood, and invited to perform live from Maida Vale for Radio 1’s Huw Stephens’ in a show celebrating the 10th anniversary of the band’s highly distinguished record label Shifty Disco. Two years on and "I Get It Wrong" is the first single to be taken from the forthcoming second album "In My Head It Works". Produced by Dave Eringa (Manic Street Preachers, Idlewild) it packs stadium sized clout alongside subtlety and chiming song writing prowess. They judder and stumble with visceral intensity before alighting all at once on the big pop hook with an apparently effortless grace. It’s this notion of grace that typifies The Race’s musical output. Although there’s an overt element of sweeping anthemia to everything they do, there’s an undeniable attention to detail in everything from the fretwork to the sonics.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Race">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.