In November 1994 the basis of The Embodiment was formed. 3 Friends from Harderwijk (NL), went accidentally into a rehearsal room and never left it again. They slowly started to learn themselves The Embodiment way of making music. Through the years some band members changed but the basis stayed the same. The band slowly developed further and further and played more and more gigs. In 1998
they released their first demo "All Because Of Lust...", which was followed by the "Razor Cut Reality" demo in 2002. A year later they became the glorious winner of the Dutch Metal Battle 2003. This resulted into gaining a lot of extra recognition amongst the
underground public and into numerous new gigs. Even some outside the Netherlands. 
These days, The Embodiment isn't anything like the day they started. Blast beats, high speed guitar riffs, up tempo drumbeats and melodic passages are very common in their songs. The lyrics are pointing out some strange behavior of the human mind. Reality is, although different from some points of view, a subject much spoken of.
On stage, you can taste the adrenaline and it will be hard to not react on the beat and melody.
October 7th 2006, the band independently released their new CD called "Legeon". It's the first big release of the band. Legeon is a synonym for individuality, and making choices. The recording of Legeon was
mainly done by the band itself. It was a hard but good experience. The eventual mixing has been done by Arno Krabman, already known for the recording of "Razor Cut Reality". The CD contains 8 tracks, with 6 new songs, that define the direction The Embodiment is going to. Fast,
aggressive and melodic thrash/death metal with a touch of The Embodiment! "Legeon" will certainly blow your head off!

At the end of April 2009 the band split up due to musical and personal changes. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Embodiment">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.