Long time friends John Gleason (vocals) and Jeremy Benson (guitar) needed to clear their heads. Both had broken up with their girlfriends and were looking to get out of New Jersey. Embarking upon an extended road trip across America, they found inspiration in a small town in a dry state.
 
Salina, Utah is not exactly dry. State-owned liquor stores sell packaged liquors and fine wines. While in a bar purchasing said “package booze” to help them through another rainy night sleeping in tents, the friends met a beautiful bartender and her sister-in-law. The decision was made to spend the night in Salina. The Jersey boys drank with Utah cowboys and took turns dancing with the girls. Everyone fell in love with the bartender, but her story was tragic. At twenty she had already suffered the death of her first husband, and with two young children she seemed stuck. John and Jeremy fantasized about rescuing her "In retrospect, she actually seemed rather content,” says Benson. "I think we were projecting our own doom and gloom onto her." Gleason began work on a song immediately. “I remember hearing John working on it,” Benson says. “He would sneak away to the bathroom for privacy.” The resulting “Song for a Dry State” tells the story of that tumultuous road trip and the beautiful young woman from Salina. It would become the Graves’ first song.
 
The next day as the pair drove toward Las Vegas, Gleason noted the numerous markers on the side of the highway. Roadside memorials for victims of traffic accidents, or descansos, are rooted in the centuries-old Catholic tradition from Spain and Mexico. Descansos mark the place of death, not the place of burial. In addition to a song, the
band had a name.
 
“Song for a Dry State” was recorded once the friends returned to Metuchen, New Jersey with the help of high school friend Rich Zilg on guitar. The band grew from there as the product of a rich artistic community. “We’re very rooted here,” Benson says. “We had our formative musical experiences in a town with really intense creative people."
 
Metuchen is a train town. Its downtown businesses cluster around the station; the morning buzzes with the frantic swarming of commuters heading to work in Manhattan. Another set of tracks crosses the main Northeast Corridor Line at the northern edge of town. These are cold tracks, meant to be used only by occasional freight trains and maintenance men. Invariably the young and the sleepless congregate on these tracks in the wee hours to pass the night. Small groups of scraggly young suburban hobos in hooded sweatshirts gather around, strumming guitars, singing, smoking, and drinking. When the weather got too cold Gleason, Benson and Zilg would gather to drink and sing in friends’ living rooms, basements and garages. The Graves began took shape from nights like these, singing around the kitchen table and sharing bottles of Wild Turkey 101. They ran tape and eventually produced their first album Where the Walker Runs Down, which the band released as a split LP with Zilg’s other band Hope Star & Browning.
 
Three additional musicians rounded out the Grave’s final lineup and helped define the band’s sound. Phillip Kunkle showed up at a late night session with a little woodpanel drumkit. Gleason met pianist Mike DeBlasio at a Halloween party, and bassist Dave Jones completed the band’s rhythm section. The acoustic backdrop was beginning to expand and swing even more between tiny and grand. Together they recorded their first proper full length If Shacking Up Is All You Want Do. The album was recorded by Benson and Zilg over a long weekend in an old house in Hightstown, NJ where Gleason was living. During the recording his landlord repeatedly left messages asking John to turn please turn his stereo down.
 
On April 4th the band will release their third album No One Will Know Where You’ve Been. Written over a period of two years, the collection of songs that became No One…reflected the changing relationships that surrounded Gleason and those closest to him. The stories on the album speak to the intensity with which people enter and exit our lives and the consequence of that motion. The album was partially recorded over two very long days at the Seaside Lounge in Brooklyn, NY by engineer Josh Clarke (Radio 4, Kele Okereke of Bloc Party, The New Pornographers). Rich and Jeremy recorded the album’s sparser tracks in their home studio. The album was mastered by Paul Gold (The Eels, Pedro the Lion, LCD Sound System) at Brooklyn Phono.

The Roadside Graves are:

John - Vocals, Guitar
Jeremy - Guitar, Vocals
Rich - Guitar, Vocals
Andrew - Drums
Mike - Piano
Dave - Bass
Colin - Percussion
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/The+Roadside+Graves">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.