The Project Hate MCMXCIX started up in 1998 after years of talking between long-time friends and band leaders Lord K. Philipson (formerly God Among Insects, Leukemia, House of Usher, Lame and the editor of legendary early 90’s fanzine Hypnosia Magazine, ex-touring bassist/guitarist for bands such as Dark Funeral, Vomitory and Grave) and Jörgen Sandström (well known for his vocals in death metal legends Grave (on their first 3 classic albums), as well as handling the bass and backing vocal duties in Entombed for over a decade. Now playing in Vicious Art and Krux).

In the winter of 1998 they recorded the one and only demo they ever did. Together with Dan Swanö we put down 3 songs in his former studio that starred Jörgen’s Entombed comrade L-G Petrov on backing vocals. The demo was sent out to 4 labels and unluckily they ended up signing to Massacre Records out of Germany in 1999.

At the end of the 1999 we recorded the widely acclaimed debut “Cybersonic Superchrist” and got massive response. Due to the incompetence of the label people had a hard time finding the album in the stores, though the reviews were raving. With this recording, made by Lord K. Philipson and Dan Swanö, vocalissa Mia Ståhl was added to the Hate to bring a wider range of variety to the music. “Cybersonic Superchrist” was released worldwide the 14th of February 2000.

Following the great press-response, album number 2 started to take form. In February 2001 they recorded “When We Are Done, Your Flesh Will Be Ours”. It was digitalized in late Nasum frontman Mieszko Talarczyk’s Soundlab Studios and mastered at Cutting Room in Stockholm, Sweden. It finally saw the naked light of day at August 27th, 2001. The response was great, though again, people had had a hard time finding it thanx to the incompetence of Massacre Records.

In 2002 Petter S. Freed (A.k.a. Petter S. Freed) of 2 Ton Predator joined as guitarist for live-situations first and foremost, which later changed to a permanent place in the band as he already contributed alot of killer ideas to their sound.

After 2 years of wanting to leave Massacre Records due to their lack of professionalism towards the band, they finally got out of the contract in February 2002.

In the summer of 2002 they played in Helsinki, Finland, and recorded the gig through the soundboard onto a mini-disc. This gig ended up being the live-album “Killing Hellsinki”, released through Threeman Recordings in April 2003.

Late 2002 they fired former vocalissa Mia Ståhl and stumbled upon Ms. Jo Enckell, who really brought in another dimension to The Hate.

In April 2003 they recorded their third full-length, “Hate, Dominate, Congregate, Eliminate”. This album was released on August 25th, 2003, on Threeman Recordings. It was recorded in Soundlab Studios, Örebro, Sweden, once again with Mieszko Talarczyk.

In early 2005 they did “Armageddon March Eternal (Symphonies Of Slit Wrists)”, with Dan Swanö in his studio, as well as recording parts of it in several other studios with other people. Originally they planned to continue working with Mieszko, but the tsunami catastrophe in the end of 2004 drastically terminated those plans. An hour of perfection was put on tape and really took them another step up the ladder of Domination. For the first time in the career of TPH they asked someone else to do the bass for the album, instead of K doing it as on all previous studio albums. Michael Håkansson (ex-Evergey, Engel) stepped up and provided some excellent shit for them. One thing led to another and the result was more than obvious: Michael had to become a full member of the band. “Armageddon March Eternal” saw the light of day in October 5th 2005 and really proved who the true disciples of Armageddon are.

In 2006 the writing sessions for “In Hora Mortis Nostræ” commenced. In October, 2006, the guitars were started to be recorded and those were finished in January of 2007. Bassist Michael had approached K about utilizing the services of a real drummer for the first time in the career of TPH and suggested his then Engel-bandmate Daniel Moilanen for the work. Said and done, Daniel  Moilanen put down the drums, and they were impressed beyond words, and he was offered a full time spot in the band in the middle of the recording. Jonna once again did her vocal parts with vocal coach Robban Eriksson (as she did on “AME”). Both Jo’s and J’s vocals were recorded in March of 2007. Michael put down his bass around the same time and in May, 2007, “In Hora Mortis Nostræ” was mixed and demonized by Dan Swanö and Lord K. Philipson. The album was released by Swedish actor Peter Stormare’s record label StormVox Records. “In Hora Mortis Nostræ” saw the light of day in September 2007.

During 2008 it became more and more clear to Petter S. Freed that he didn’t have the motivation nor fire anymore to be a part of The Hate, so one thing led to another and he decided to leave the band on good terms. Replacement for him was found rather easily as K’s friend Anders Bertilsson already helped him out with composing the material for the follow-up to “In Hora Mortis Nostræ”. So it was more than natural to ask him to fill Petter S. Freed’s shoes. And so he did.

In 2008 we left StormVox Records and ended up signing a deal with Vic Records from Holland, something they are very happy about.

In the end of 2008 Daniel  Moilanen was relieved from his duties as the drummer of TPH due to conflicting schedules and in stepped Thomas Ohlsson. 2008 saw the creation of “The Lustrate Process” take form and this masterpiece was recorded at various studios while ending up being mixed and mastered by Dan Swanö at Unisound Studios. Philipson once again handled the bass since Michael had no choice but to pass on this recording due to many personal reasons. Release date was July 6th, 2009 through Vic Records and with this album they raised the bar once again for what they can, and will, do in the future.

In 2010 some changes were made in the Hate camp. Jonna Enckell and Thomas Ohlsson were both relieved of duty and in stepped K’s and J’s Torture Division brother Tobias Gustafsson on drums while Portuguese girl Ruby Roque (from the band Witchbreed) joined the fold on vocals. 2010 saw a split between TPH and Vic Records due to financial difficulties for the label, but that’s not stopping the band who are about to enter the studio for the 7th album while looking for a new label home.

Current line-up:
Lord K. Philipson - Guitars, Bass, Keyboards, Programming, Backing Vocals (Dark Funeral, God Among Insects, House of Usher, Leukemia, Misery (Swe), Odyssey (Swe), Torture Division)
Jörgen Sandström - Vocals (formerly also Bass) (Grave, Corpse (Swe), Krux, Vicious Art, Entombed, Death Breath, Putrefaction (Swe), Torture Division, Grinding Death, Anguish, Toolshed)
Anders Bertilsson - Guitars (Ruin (Swe), Coldworker)
Ruby Roque - Vocals (Extreme Attitude, Witchbreed)
Tobias Gustafsson - Drums (Syrus (Swe), God Among Insects, Vomitory (Swe), Timothy Griffiths' Psychedelic Sunrise, Torture Division)

Former/Past member(s):
Vocals:
Mia Ståhl
Jonna Enckell (Ignorance Bliss, Siren On)

Guitars:
Petter S. Freed (2 Ton Predator, United Machinery)

Bass:
Michael Håkansson (Embraced, Engel (Swe), Evergrey, Incapacity, Mortum (Swe), The Forsaken)

Drums:
Daniel Moilanen (Relevant Few, Dracena, Runemagick, Lord Belial, Engel (Swe), Sandalinas)
Thomas Olsson (Kamtjatka, Axenstar, Seven Wishes, Cellout, Apostasy (Swe))

Discography:
Deadmarch: Initiation of Blasphemy (1998)
CyberSonic SuperChrist (2000)
When We Are Done, Your Flesh Will Be Ours (2001)
Killing Hellsinki (Live) (2002)
Hate, Dominate, Congregate, Eliminate (2003)
Armageddon March Eternal (Symphonies Of Slit Wrists) (2005)
In Hora Mortis Nostræ (2007)
The Lustrate Process (2009)
Bleeding The New Apocalypse (2011) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Project+Hate+MCMXCIX">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.