There are five artists on Last.fm with the name The Vultures.

1) An alternative band from Edinburgh.  Popular in the 1980s.
2) A rock band from St. Louis.
3) A psychobilly band from Ruma, Serbia.
4) A Texas based hip hop collective.
5) A rock band from Cincinnati, Ohio active in the early 1990s.

1) The Vultures are a household name among the rock n’ rollers of St. Louis. After being named the “Best New Band of 2005” by the Riverfront Times and being personally commissioned to open shows by the likes of the Gore Gore Girls (Detroit) and the Jet Set (Milwaukee), it’s not hard to see why.  The Vultures unique blend of dirty L.A. punk and Chuck Berry guitar have created quite a buzz. As local radio personality Bob Reuter (Bob’s Scratchy Records, KDHX) says, they “capture the spirit of what rock n’ roll is all about.”

The Vultures debut self-titled album has been a top seller locally ever since it was released on Big Muddy Records in November of 2005. Positive album reviews from legendary DIY magazines like Under the Volcano and Maximum Rock n’ Roll have only helped. Rockabilly Magazine called their blend of punk and rock n’ roll one “of cacophonic tenor and with endearing drive.” Punk Planet claimed they were "heavier than even the Cramps." No Brains called their debut album a "masterpiece."

The Vultures have successfully embarked on national tours, making stops at prestigious rock n' roll festivals like the Heavy Rebel Weekender and the Drop Dead Festival in New York. They are currently working on recording their sophomore album.

For more about The Vultures and their Big Muddy Records buddies, check out bigmuddyrecords.homestead.com.

2) The Vultures are a hip hop group from Texas. 

3) The Vultures are a roots rock band that performed as the backing band of Jon Roket in the early 1990s. Based out of the Cincinnati and Oxford, Ohio area, these Vultures released 1 album, Bricklayers, produced by Roger Klug and Skip Mark Erickson of Two Doors Down & the Number Prophets. Roket went on to a solo career featuring many of The Vultures. Kurt Squire, another Vulture, went on to perform with The Mary Janes, Big Mule, and Crooked County.

4) The Vultures were an alternative band from the mid-80s.  They did some sessions for Janice Long show which can be found on youtube.   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Vultures">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.