There are several bands sharing the name "The Generals"

THE GENERALS

founded:  Early 2005

Sacramento CA
United States

Members:  Mathew Sertich - Vocals, Guitars, Piano
                     Kirk Janowiak - Drums, Programming, Keyboards

Former Members : Blane Barker  Bass Guitar

(1)The Generals were deployed in the summer of 2005 by longtime  Sacramento, California music vets Matt Sertich (vocals, guitars, piano) and Kirk Janowiak (drums, programming, keyboards, backing vocals). Following the disbandment of the musicians’ former endeavors, Zero to Heaven and Pocket Change, The Generals were born in Janowiak’s kitchen as a studio project.

The result, a guerrilla-style series of early recordings that employed a synthesizer, a laptop, recorded keyboard and temporary drum tracks which eventually led to a five-song demo entitled Trains at the end of 2005. At this point The Generals felt another member was needed in order to perform live so they recruited the bass playing skills of Blane Barker. With Blane in place, The Generals recorded and released their first official album, Save Me in 2007. After several years spent performing throughout Sacramento and along the West Coast, Blane parted ways leaving The Generals to soldier on as a 2 piece once again. Only this time around they had felt they didn't need to find another bass player. The Generals recently released their first full-length CD, a self-titled album The Generals  recorded with Joe Johnston (Deftones, Cake).

Official Band Site :  http://www.myspace.com/thegeneralsmusic

(2) Swedish hard-rock/metal outfit The Generals. Founded in  Karlstad, Sweden in late 2005 and consisting of 
Hednar: Lead vocals/Bass 
Rickard: Lead guitars 
Dick: Guitars/Vocals, 
MetalMartin: Drums/Percussion

They released their first album, Stand Up Straight  on MetalCentral Records in 2009. When the band was asked to describe their music the answer was short and simple: "a death metal cigarette with a rock ..n.. roll filter".  
See http://www.myspace.com/thegeneralsrock for more info...



3) The Generals were a Detroit-based Alternative rock band from 1990-1992. The Generals featured
Kevin Peshkopia: Rhythm Guitar (Vocals), 
Dave 'Otel' O'Leary: Bass, 
Matt Washburn: Drums, 
Dave Uricek: Lead Guitar, 
Flip Cherven (R.I.P.): Bass, 
John Speck: Lead Guitar, 
Tony Cole: Lead Vocals 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Generals">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.