From the splendor of lightning-fast riffs and hyper speed drumming, to moshing along with heavy and powerful grooves, THE FADING’s live show is an event to remember. Combining influences from both the veterans of the Swedish scene and the modern new-school American metal heroes, THE FADING brings a violent and furious thrash and death metal attack, sure to leave everyone in the crowd beaten and bruised, but none the less satisfied.
The band was formed in 2000 under the name Excessum. The line-up became stable around 2003 with vocalist and band founder Ilia Badrov, guitarists Arie Aranovich and Leon Notik, bassist Elad Manor and drummer Shaked Furman. For the next 3 years, Excessum has managed to share stages and intensive live shows with some great bands from the Israeli scene such as Betzefer, Eternal Gray and Whorecore.
In the end of 2005 the guys entered the Groove Studios with producer Daniel Varfolomeyev (Acropolis) to record the EP ‘Instruction for Self Destruction’, that consists of 5 in-your-face death metal tracks. During the mixing process Leon left the band and was replaced by Jonathan Bar-Ilan (Dissonant). The EP was released in the end of 2006, followed by great reviews, and the band changing its name to THE FADING.
In 2007 the band entered Jonathan’s studio to record the promotional EP ‘Chaos in Flesh’. Produced by Jonathan himself and mixed by Swedish musician and producer Jonas Kjellgren (Scar Symmetry, Carnal Forge) at his own Black Lounge Studio, ‘Chaos in Flesh’ features 3 crushing new tracks and 2 re-recorded and improved versions of tracks taken from ‘Instruction for Self Destruction’. After Jonathan finished his job producing the new recording, he left the band. His position was taken by Pavel Mitiyanine (Deface).
Nowadays, THE FADING is looking for a record label to help recording and releasing a full-length album, and getting the band on the road.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Fading">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.