There are three bands named "The Difference":

The Belgian one:
The Difference is a Belgian quintet formed in 1996 when members of Nasty Society and Blackmail decided to start a new band. With the first line up ,Steven Van Hyfte on lead guitar, Christophe De Bock on rhythm guitar , Dirk De Kesel on bass , Kristof Ingels on drums and Gerd Hanssens on vocals, three demos were recorded. At that time the band had a rather doomy sound inspired by bands as Anathema and Paradise Lost. The Demo recordings resulted in quite some performances.

The band had a strong live reputation which made them well known in the local scene. Around 2002 bassplayer Dirk and drummer Kristof left the band for personal reasons. They were replaced by Steven Mervielde on bass and Edward Timmerman on drums. With this line up the first full album “ Lost in Mass Confusion” was recorded.

A few months later Christophe De Bock left the band, he was replaced by Bram Van De Moortel. In 2009 the second album “ When Light uncovers Grey” was released. After a few months Edward (drums) also decided to stop playing. He was replaced for a short time by drummer A.J.

During this period the music video “ The Awakening “ was recorded and released. The cooperation with the new drummer didn’t work out so drummer A.J. was asked to leave the band. As a result of the new album and the music video the band played some bigger festivals like Alcatraz festival ( with Saxon , Testament…) and played as support for Agent Steel and Vicious Rumours In 2012 The Difference performed at Graspop Metal Meeting. Meanwhile Kristof Ingels rejoined the band as drummer.

Autumn 2012 Bram decided to leave the band to go study and work in China. He was replaced by Ruben Dhaene almost immediately. Ruben seems to find his way in the band very well, a fresh breeze can be a good thing and so it is.

Previous years, The Difference released an acoustic EP with a 5-song collection of its work in acoustic form. At the moment The Difference is working on songs for a new full album, together with the filming and release of its new music video! Stay tuned!

The Spanish one:
Formed in Barcelona in 1994 they were together until 1996, performing arround Catalonia with one recording: "The Difference" (1994)
Members of the band:
Ber: Voice, Toni: Guitar, Raul: Bass, Gab: Drums.
After their disssolution In 1996, Ber, Raul and Gab refounded the group under "The Madding Crowd" name.

The Italian one:
Teamed up at the end of 2003 with large part of the Receipt's line up THE DIFFERENCE is an hardcore band coming from Rome, Italy. Some of their present and past members already played (or are currently playing) with other great local bands: Strength Approach, Receipt, Face The Fact, To Kill. Since the beginning they worked to build a solid band based on friendship and dedication in what they sincerely stand for, focusing the lyrics most of all on social and political issues without losing the personal point of view. Consider the sound as fast straightforward old school hardcore with balanced melody, all included in a modern agressive sound. The first work was a self produced CDEP called "Times We Share" which includes 4 songs and it's still available in really few copies. The first full length album called "Speakers And Followers" containing 12 tracks was released on December 2K5 by Countdown Records (www.countdownrecords.com)! The first press is gone in a while and for this great positive reaction it was pressed with also a brand new artwork again on Countdown for Europe and in a cool digipack version on canadian Lower Left Records (www.lowerleft.ca) for North America, for the same reason Valium Records (www.hellnation.it) from Rome decided to press "Speakers And Followers" on coloured LP! According to the continuous desire of playing live acts THE DIFFERENCE made lots of gigs and some tours around with really good bands (Terror, Give Up The Ghost, Hatebreed... ) and with other great bands of friends (The Miracle, Values Intact, No More Fear, Pointing Finger, Endstand... ), we're preparing lots of other shows, more to come and stay crucial! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Difference">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.