There are more than one artist sharing this name:

1) Alias of Irish producer Barry Lynn (aka Boxcutter).

2) Since forming in 2006, The Host has become a staple of the Hard Rock scene in Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. What started out as a labor of love for the four-piece has become an outright obsession.

"The need to write and perform outweighs anything else in our lives, and we work hard to ensure that everything we do has a special quality to it," says Host singer, Chris Charlton.

Drawing on a full spectrum of musical influences, The Host's overall sound lies around the edges of bands like Muse, The Mars Volta, and Queens of the Stone Age. Their unique style and unusual songwriting methods offer a more stream-of-conscious feel that stretches beyond the boundaries of modern Progressive Rock and Alternative Rock. Exotic verses and powerful choruses are supported by a solid framework of hooks that sink in and don't let go. In keeping with their namesake, song themes range from tales of revenge to restlessness to co-dependent relationships.

Following the release of the Dual EP Project; 2007's “Receive” and 2008's “Transmit”, word-of-mouth for The Host has spread rapidly. Intense live shows and radio airplay, (including a variety of internet podcasts), have only fueled their fire. The Host received a nomination for the 2007 Cincinnati Entertainment Awards in the category of Best Hard Rock Band, and also forged their way to the Regional Semi-Finals of the Nationwide Bodog Battle of the Bands. The Host has been invited to join the 2008 Van’s Warped Tour and the annual MidPoint Music Festival (the regions largest music showcase). These high caliber shows have enabled The Host to establish further recognition with a fast growing audience.

With the Receive/Transmit Dual EP Project now under their belt, The Host has started work on their first full length album while continuing to play LIVE, consistently attracting new listeners to their growing fan base.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Host">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.