There is more than one artist named The Movement: 

1.  rock/reggae/hip hop band from Philadelphia, PA
2. MOD band from Copenhagen, Denmark.
3. techno group from Los Angeles, CA
4. grime collective from London, UK
5.  Indie/Rock band from Dublin, Ireland

1. The Movement is a rock/reggae/hip hop band originally formed in Columbia, South Carolina, USA in 2004. The original lineup consisted of Josh Swain, Jordan Miller and Jon Ruff (DJ Riggles).
In March 2004 they released their first studio album, On Your Feet, which was recorded and mixed in 24 studio hours at Pat Casey's Modern Music Studios in Columbia, South Carolina. On Your Feet has proved a mainstay of the reggae/rock genre and is listed at #9 on ThePier.org's 10 Essential Reggae Rock Albums.
The band continued to build their following with nonstop touring throughout the Southeastern United States. They enjoyed success in opening for national acts such as Steel Pulse, Blues Traveler, Slightly Stoopid, The Wailers, Ludacris, G. Love & Special Sauce, Common, Long Beach Shortbus, Wu-Tang Clan and 311. Their fanbase was growing steadily but the band wasn't breaking any new ground and the trio began losing interest. After DJ Riggles left the band, the remaining duo found themselves at a crossroads until meeting Philadelphonic Studios producer Chris DiBeneditto (Philadelphonic Records), who was looking for new talent to work with and, having seen the band several times, knew they had enormous potential. Swain and Miller dedicated themselves to their craft and made the move to Philadelphia to record their newest material at Philadelphonic. Chris put his experience with G. Love & Special Sauce, Slightly Stoopid and The Expendables to work on what was to become The Movement's second studio album, 2008's Set Sail. To solidify the band's lineup, DiBeneditto contacted local drummer Gary Jackson to sit-in with Swain and Miller. The three hit it off immediately and Jackson brought in his friend, guitarist Jay Schmidt, to play bass. The four of them proved to be a dynamic quartet and so the current lineup was settled. In late 2010 Swain left the band and Miller took over lead vocals. Miller enlisted the help of an old friend John Bowling (Johnny Keys) to join the band and play keyboard. The new lineup went into the studio in the fall of 2011 to record a new album One More Night which was released in March of 2012. On April 20, 2012 the band suddenly broke up and canceled the rest of the tour. Miller stated he needed a break while Schmidt stated that Miller left to pursue a solo career. In May 2012, it was announced that Swain would rejoin the band and assume lead vocals once more. Bowling had already left the band following the breakup the previous month. The new trio of Swain, Jackson, and Schmidt would continue on. They are slated to release a new album in the Summer of 2013 entitled, Side by Side.
After extensive touring across the United States, The Movement has found new life and is currently gaining huge momentum on the shoulders of their well-received sophomore album.

2. The Movement is a power-trio from Copenhagen/Denmark.They play mod-rock with elements of ska. Their sound is influenced by The Jam, The Who and The Clash.

3. A techno group from Los Angeles, California consisting of musicians AJ Mora, Richard "Humpty" Vission with rapper/DJ/producer/dancer DJ Hazze, produced by Walter "Kandor" Kahn. They are best known for their 1992 single "Jump!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Movement">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.