The New Year is an indie rock band, formed in 1999, a year after the demise of the band Bedhead by former Bedhead members Bubba and Matt Kadane.

Like Bedhead in its later years, The New Year has no real base of operations, but consists of members who live in many locations all over America convene every few years to record and tour. The band consists of brothers Matt and Bubba Kadane (located respectively in Ithaca, New York and Dallas and formerly of Bedhead), Mike Donofrio (located in New York), Josh McKay (of the Athens, Georgia band Macha), Peter Schmidt (located in Dallas, formerly of the bands Three on a Hill, Funland and the Legendary Crystal Chandelier) and Chris Brokaw (in Boston, formerly of the bands Codeine and Come).

The New Year was originally intended to be a two-person project made up of only the Kadane brothers. Donofrio, McKay, Schmidt, and Brokaw, all longtime friends of the Kadanes, were slowly recruited for live performances and the lineup solidified.

In 2000, The New Year recorded their first album, Newness Ends, in Chicago, with Steve Albini (who had previously recorded the final Bedhead album "Transaction De Novo"); it was released in February 2001 on Touch & Go Records. Because the lineup wasn't complete at the time of its recording, not everyone credited on the album (namely Schmidt) actually played on it. The album garnered much critical praise and comparison to the Kadanes' previous work. The Kadanes said in interviews at the time that they felt the only real difference between Bedhead and The New Year was the name and that if Bedhead had not disbanded, their next album would have sounded very similar to Newness Ends.

After a short tour to support Newness Ends the members separated again and almost everyone worked on other projects. The Kadanes recorded a score for the documentary film Hell House, the soundtrack of which wasn't released until 2004, though the film first appeared in 2001. Brokaw released solo recordings, played on recordings by Evan Dando and Consonant and collaborated on a project with playwright Rinde Eckert. Peter Schmidt played with the Legendary Crystal Chandelier, whose second and final album, Beyond Indifference, was released at about the same time as Newness Ends.

In 2003 the members regrouped as The New Year to record the material that would become the album The End Is Near. The album, released by Touch & Go Records in May 2004, was again recorded by Steve Albini. The band filmed a music video (a first for the Kadanes) for the song "Disease" to accompany the album.

The third The New Year record was released on September 9, 2008. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+New+Year">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.