There are two bands operating under the name The Wounded:

1) The Wounded is a Dutch wave-rock band, hailing from the province of Drenthe, in the north of The Netherlands. They play intense and melancholy rock.

In 2000 The Wounded released their debut called The Art of Grief. It was followed in March 2002 by their second album titled Monument. Shortly after the release of this album The Wounded changed their line-up. The only two original members, bassplayer Andy Haandrikman and singer-guitarist Marco van der Velde, searched for new musicians. After auditioning several musicians, they found a new drummer, lead-guitarplayer and synth-player : Alwin Schnoing, Sander Wessels and Eduard Dresscher. The Monument album was promoted with a high number of performances with which the band played in most parts of The Netherlands. They also played very successful gigs in other countries as Belgium and Germany. In the beginning of 2003 The Wounded started to work on their new album Atlantic. After working hard for almost a year The Wounded released their third album early 2004 on Coldblood Industries' sub-label Ebony Tears.

On Atlantic the band sounds more mature than ever before, even though the music on the album is more comprehensive. The experimental parts of old Pink Floyd mixed with the atmosphere of Anathema, Marillion, The Cure, Fields of the Nephilim and other influences like Sigur Rós and Placebo. The band succeeds in giving all these influences their own typical sound, which causes Atlantic to sound modern and refreshing, but also very close and familiar. It got great reviews form national and international press and the band supported it by a great number of shows, festivals as well as club gigs, in The Netherlands and abroad.

Members:

Alwin Schnoing, Drums
Andy Haandrikman, Bass Guitar
Marco van der Velde, Vocals / Guitar
Eduard Dresscher, Keyboards
Sander Wessels, Guitar

Discography:

Starpeople (1999) - DEMO
The Art Of Grief (2000)
Monument (2002)
Atlantic (2004)
Sunset (2016)

Website:

http://www.the-wounded.nl/

2) The Wounded is Brandon T's musical nonense. 
So far, The Wounded has 5 CD's:
*Misery EP (2003)
*Abattoir EP (2003)
*Rest in Pieces (2004)
*Dinner with the Reaper (2005)
*The Wounded (2006)
The official website is www.thewounded.net, or you can visit www.myspace.com/thewoundedvsyou.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Wounded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.