The Gourds, an American alternative country band, formed in Austin, Texas in 1994.
Evolving, in part, from the Picket Line Coyotes and the Grackles, the Gourds original line-up consists of Kevin Russell (vocals, guitar, mandolin), Jimmy Smith  (vocals, bass, guitar), Claude Bernard  (accordion, guitar, vocals), and Charlie Llewellin  (drums, percussion). Llewellin was replaced by current drummer Keith Langford shortly after the second album was recorded, and multi-instrumentalist Max Johnston officially joined after being invited to play on their third album. By the following album, Johnston had also become the band's third songwriter, though Russell and Smith have continued to share the bulk of those responsibilities.
Despite a sizable amount of original material, the Gourds are probably best known for a song they did not write, and for which they initially did not receive credit. A full twelve years after its live debut, fans can still be heard calling out for the band's cover version of Snoop Dogg's "Gin and Juice", often before they have even taken the stage. This has led some to consider it an albatross, but the band continues to play the crowd pleaser, adding various impromptu covers to its mid-section as a way of expanding its appeal.

While the Gourds studio efforts have all been well received, their high-energy live performances and constant touring have earned them the reputation of a band that must be seen to be appreciated. As a result, they enjoy a dedicated fan base, that is happy to follow them from town to town, and have become a favorite among those who tape live music

Members

    * Kevin Russell - vocals, mandolin, guitar
    * Claude Bernard - accordion, organ, guitar
    * Jimmy Smith - vocals, guitar, percussion, bass, water bowl
    * Keith Langford - drums, harmonica, washboard, toy guitar
    * Max Johnston (of Uncle Tupelo & Wilco) - banjo, fiddle, guitar, vocals

Discography

 Studio albums
Dem's Good Beeble – 1997 
Stadium Blitzer – 1998 
Ghosts of Hallelujah – 1999 
Bolsa de Agua – 2000 
Cow Fish Fowl or Pig – 2002 
Blood of the Ram – 2004 
Heavy Ornamentals – 2006 
Noble Creatures – 2007 
Haymaker! – 2009 

 Studio covers and live originals
Gogitchyershinebox – 1998 
Shinebox – 2001 

 Soundtracks
Growin' a Beard – 2003 
Something's Brewin' in Shiner – 2004 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Gourds">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.