We are The Hollow Earth Theory. A five piece metal band from the West-Midlands, in the United Kingdom!
www.myspace.com/thehollowearththeory
www.alveusterra.com/shop

REVIEWS BELOW

Finally, a UK band to give the likes of Killswitch Engage and Trivium a run for their money. The Best New Metal Band In Britain!"
Metal Hammer

"Brilliant and balanced metal. Soaring solos, epic guitar lines with as much growl as melodic singing; as much aggressive chugging as harmonious riffing; as much speed as pounding breakdowns."
9/10 - Metal Hammer

"There's no greater proof of power than the ability to master subtlety within grim heaviness. Most metal acts do one or the other - a few, like this band do both. Exciting times for UK metal!"
KKKK - Kerrang!

"Rise Of Agartha’ is produced, played and arranged impeccably. This is one almighty facemelter of an album with such strong songs and such electrifying playing, it demands your attention and rewards you tenfold, being a beast that you will want to enjoy and experience as it feeds your needs with as much attention as you reciprocate the favour, the ultimate in symbiotic heavy metal mayhem. From start to finish, this just blows you away with it’s intensity and yet it’s so freakin’ listenable!! A new way has begun and it may be Hollow in name, but it’s solid as a rock in nature!!"
10/10 - Dead Ernest

"If The Hollow Earth Theory were to release a single track CD on a pre-scratched CDR and asked a tenner for the privilege, such is the quality of this band, I'd seriously consider it. It's all completely brilliant. Honestly, if these guys get any better, their next release will have me spontaneously ejaculating on command. Will someone, please, for the love of God, give them a record deal."
9.5/10 - Ultimate Metal

"It's very safe to say this album is filler free and you're given the dogs bollocks in Metal today. Forget what you see on Kerrang and Scuzz and check out the real deal. The Hollow Earth Theory are one of the best Metal acts I've heard in a while and if they had a backer behind them with lots of dosh these guys would be huge. This album is a testament to the hard work they've put in over the passed five years and you'd be a mug to pass up on this offering."
9/10 - Street Voice

"For some 2008 is defined by Slipknot's 'All Hope Is Gone' or Metallica's 'Death Magnetic'. For me it has to be Britain's best metal hope The Hollow Earth Theory. 'Rise Of Agartha' belongs in everyone's record collection."
9/10 - Hard Rock House

"THET are definitely one of the best bands on the scene at the moment and really must be seen."
Glasswerk.co.uk

"The Hollow Earth Theory mark themselves out as a band destined for brilliance. Thrilling riffs – metallic, powerful and performed with an enviable technical expertise – combine with a singer who can both write a great melody and then sing it."
Kerrang!

"The Hollow Earth Theory are quite simply a mouth-watering prospect. Expect to see big things from this band in the near future."
Planet-loud.com

"THET have it all. They have the songs, the musicianship, the image, and generally the whole package to be one of the biggest metal bands to come out of the UK in the last ten years. I cannot recommend them enough."
10/10 - Unsigned

"The musicianship on ‘Rise of Agartha’ is amazing and the songs have a new, fresh quality about them. Based on this album, I predict a big future for The Hollow Earth Theory, not to mention some very healthy support slots coming their way!"
7/10 Powerplay

"Somehow, they seem to be able to showcase and summarise a history of metal from the last 20 years within one twelve track album. This band are impressive!"
7/10 Alt Sounds

"It's good to hear that someone is coming up with their own sound rather than stealing and modifying someone else's."
8/10 - Rock On The Web

"Music so inventive that Einstein would be proud, but most of all you get melodies you won’t forget. Wonderfully arranged, and perfectly produced. This rocks!"
8/10 - AU

"Blistering assault from promising UK upstarts."
KKKK - Kerrang!

"At the moment The Hollow Earth Theory skirt the boundaries of a new brand of progressive, intelligent metal that is as catchy as it is violent."
Manchestermusic.co.uk

"Lunges out of the speakers for you like something off the last Hatebreed album. This sounds great and bodes well for the future!"
8/10 - Terrorizor

"Be warned you may be left with blisters if you stand too close."
Sonance.co.uk

"Their next record, if they keep up this level of writing could be mind-blowing! This is one British band that you HAVE to keep an eye on!"
Kudos

"Soaring melodies and thundering riffs. This sounds fantastic!"
4/5 Big Cheese

"Highly inventive, in posession of some killer riffs, by turns savage and soothing, The Hollow Earth Theory could well be in position to take up the fallen Earthtone 9's crown as kings of the British metal scene - and with material like this, the record deal needed to push this band to the next level surely can't be far away."
9/10 - Ultimate Metal

"They have great tunes and are a delight to watch. If you like your metal HEAVY you'll love these."
Honeyrecords.co.uk

"This is a band that will really pull on your heartstrings and rock your world. In a sea of emo imposters and sikth-form punk rock, this is a british band really worth getting excited about!"
Salvo

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Hollow+Earth+Theory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.