There are 2 artists known as The Beholder.

The hardstyle DJ
The Beholder is an alias for Jeroen Streunding, probably better known as the man behind the hardcore-formation Neophyte. Jeroen uses his alias The Beholder for his hardstyle releases. 

The Death Metal/Grindcore band from Wisconsin
With a onslaught of pulverizing drum work, face melting guitar parts, chunky bass lines and dueling guttural vocals straight from hell, THE BEHOLDER was everything a deathgrind band should be and more.
THE BEHOLDER attempted to step it up a notch musically, drawing influences from bands such as Dying Fetus, Circle Of Dead Children, Misery Index and Skinless. Lyrically, they wrote about subjects such as religion, government, veganism/vegitarianism and the environment as well as other controversial issues that plague the world of today.
Started in March 2006, THE BEHOLDER had experienced many line-up changes until their inevitable collapse. The members each hailed from different areas of southeast Wisconsin and northern Illinois, bringing many different styles and ideas to create their unique and individual sound.
At the time of their demise, THE BEHOLDER had self-released two albums and a demo cd. Also, they had completed four tours of the midwest, south and southeast, playing in over thirteen states. They had shared the stage with such nationally recognized acts as Veil Of Maya, Skeletonwitch, In The Face Of War, Fuck...I'm Dead, Putrid Pile, The Analyst, Screaming Afterbirth, Get Rad, Fordirelifesake and Circle of Dead Children.
Earning quite a reputation for themselves, THE BEHOLDER stayed true to their beliefs and convictions no matter what happened, played as many shows as possible and gave the middle finger to all who are turning hardcore and metal into a money hungry and trendy scene. 

www.myspace.com/thebeholdermetal

There is also a Hardstyle composer named The Beholder. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Beholder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.