There are three bands named 'The Bishops', two are the bands described below, the other is the band previously known as The Count Bishops.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1) The Bishops are; Mike Bishop (vox and guitar), Pete Bishop (vox and bass) and Chris McConville (drums). London based, the band formed two years ago when twin brothers Mike and Pete met Chris working in their local pub the King’s Head.

The brothers’ natural talent for melody and harmony along with Chris’s energy on drums hit it off immediately and The Bishops were born. Ever since, the twin’s prolific songwriting partnership has spawned a vast collection of songs. From standout track ‘I don’t really know what to say’, to the energetic beat of ‘Menace about town’ and golden pop tune ‘Will you ever come back again?’

Musical sources of inspiration can be seen in early sixties beat and late rock ’n’ roll records from the Everly brothers, the Beatles and Chuck Berry to the Who, the Kinks and Arthur Lee’s Love. The Bishops also pay homage to their influences by covering the Outsiders’ Dutch beat classic ‘Sun’s going down’ at many of their shows.

The duality and striking harmonies of the twins have become distinctive trademarks and live their recent performances have marked them out as one of the most exciting must see new bands on the London circuit. The Bishops deliver two and a half minute pop gems with the energy and excitement that leaves crowds wanting more, more, more. They say no one writes songs like they used too, but this band really do. The Bishops write songs that are addictive, unashamedly pop and timeless.

See what the fuss over these boys is all about and be one of the many that’s doing the talking about one of the most exciting young British bands in years. 

2) The Bishops: ska band from Omaha
Mike Bechtel -- Vocals, trombone, rhythm guitar
John Green -- Vocals, lead and rhythm guitar
Ira Hughey -- Trumpet, vocals, percussion
Scott “Spiny” Norman -- Keyboards, C tenor sax
“Dirty” Dan Vaughn -- Bass
Dan Burger -- Drums, percussion <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Bishops">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.