The Nihilistic Front formed in January 2005. The initial intent was to fuse elements from bands like Godflesh and Disembowelment and would be an instrumental one-man solo project. It became apparent that something was missing, so Gaz called upon Chris, an old f(r)iend from Excarnated to contribute on vocals. Gaz had previously spent a few years on guitar/bass in Excarnated, and had also formed Antichrist (Aus) with Chris in 1996 so there was never any other vocalist in mind. Rehearsals began in June 2006 after much discussion/drinking. Chris had not sung for a few months after disbanding Excarnated, and Gaz had not rehearsed with humans for well over 5 years. Despite this, things came together quite easily and recorded the debut release "The Four Seasons In Misery" in late 2006 (released early 2007). After a lengthy break, "The Null Factor Law" was written and recorded. Initially intended for a 2007 release on lathe vinyl, the release was put on hold indefinitely. A reworked version eventually resurfaced as a free download from Bandcamp.

Throughout 2008/early 2009 they recorded another full-length album entitled "Total Disgust For Mankind". This album contains three filthy tracks of doom and death. The band then reconvened in late 2009 to work on two new tracks of doomed destruction. The band was then then put on hold for the rest of the year, during this time Chris completed the first full length album for his solo band "Pervertum Obscurum". By mid 2011 a third full length was finally completed, and "Apocryphal Dirge" was unleashed.

After a lengthy demo process, the fourth album "Procession To Annihilation" was finally released by Aesthetic Death Records in 2013. They have since expanded the lineup and also performed live at the When Terror Unites Festival in 2014. They are currently preparing new music for their fifth album as well as more live shows. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Nihilistic+Front">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.