The Bleeding Sun rose from the ashes of a band called Ravensouls, which was formed in Rubí (Barcelona) in 1996. Ravensouls recorded a demo entitled “Burning flesh in raven’s possession” that was never released, but after several line up changes (a guitarist went back to Costa Rica, his homeland, forming December’s Cold Winter) the band took a new musical direction and decided to change it’s name to The Bleeding Sun. It was the Y2K, and the band gave a series of remarkable concerts in Sala Mephisto and Sala KGB. Soon after they would record a song dedicated to Ravensouls entitled “The raven’s are crying blood again”, that appeared in some compilations receiving great response.
 
The Bleeding Sun had already written a good bunch of songs and it was time to record the first Cd. But before that, some members left the band, so Psycomoon (vocals), Norvack (synth & violin), Bastard (guitars) and Slave (bass player that switched to drums) were the ones to record “Nessare”, The Bleeding Sun’s first album. At the same time, they would look for a new bassist and guitarist, finding Phacks (guitarist from Phackner) and Julkarn (taking care of the bass).
 
In the year 2002, having adopted Uryol as the new bassist, the band were dedicated to promote “Nessare” on the media. A website was created, a first attempt sending the Cd to some labels, the record was heard in some radio shows, and the album was introduced to the audience through some magazines and fanzines. “Nessare” got great reviews, not a even a bad one, both nationally and internationally.
 
Year 2003, the band performed at the Avellana Rock festival, with some well-known Spanish bands on the bill, like Baron Rojo, Tierra Santa or Barricada. The Bleeding Sun played a bunch of new songs in this concert that would appear in their next record.
 
During 2003 and 2004 the band kept performing (Metal Zone, Carretera 13, Sala Clap) and writing new material for the next Cd, but they also had to say farewell to two members. The first one was Bastard, who wanted to keep doing music but in different terms, and finally Psycomoon, the one that had been vocalist since Ravensouls were founded decided to leave the band in September 2004 due to personal reasons. That’s when Orkus became the main guitarist, something noticeable from the new songs, and entered Markvs as vocalist, with a different style, but suitable to the new direction of the band, much more brutal than “Nessare” or “Damnatorium”.
 
 
At the end of 2006 Orkus leaves the group and the band remains without guitar. In expectation of a new guitarist finds they shut themselves up to compose new topics.
 
In April, 2007 they incorporate into the lines of The Bleeding Sun the not one, if not two guitars: Búfal (ex Nemesis Aeterna) and Isaac (Malaverany).
 
 
In June, 2008 Markvs decides to leave the group to devote itself to his other projects. After looking two months, we can announce that we have new singer.

After a while looking, I can announce that we have acquired a new guitar. He comes from Ars Maligna and you can call he Duhkka.
 
Current Line-up:
 
Ivar: voice.
Búfal: guitar.
Uryol: bass and vocals.
Slave: drums.
Norvack: synth and violin.
Duhkka: guitar. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Bleeding+Sun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.