There are currently three known bands with the name The Circle. 

1. The Circle were formed in Spring 2009 in Rowlett, Texas but did not take full shape until the summer of 2009. The members all started as strangers meeting through Craigslist, however it is now understood that they were brought together by fate. Their sound is heavy on driving guitar riffs and stirring vocal hooks that will take you to a place where ordinary Rock/Alt-Metal bands can't go. Their relentless attention to musical detail and hard work results in a sound that cannot be denied by the local music scene. This is no cookie-monster, screamo sound; this is musical and thoughtful all the while being aggressive and in your face. Their lyrics deal with rejection, love, and hope as well as other emotions and thoughts that we all share. 

Band Members:
Don Mills - vocals
Craig Nelson - lead guitar
Alan Sauls - rhythm guitar
Kenneth Henrichs - bass
Marc Berry - drums

2. The Circle is also one of the previous names of Dutch Goth/Symphonic Metal band Within Temptation.

The first, from Coventry, The Circle are Jim Peakman, vocals, guitar and harmonica, Gaz Driver, guitar, Dale Driver, bass, Sean Marley, drums. The band was born out of another band called The Faid, and have been playing their music around the midlands for the last two years, including headlining the Cavern Club, Birmingham Academy, Coventry Colosseum, and Northampton Roadmenders . They have supported Nine Black Alps and South. The Circle have been influenced by Led Zeppelin, The Coral, Bob Dylan, The Beatles, The Clash, Arctic Monkeys, Jeff Buckley, Pink Floyd, The Doors and Radiohead. They got the name from
the bands objection to the trend of long winded and completed names; they wanted something short and easy to remember.

The music that The Circle give us, has that 60's jingle jangle, upbeat, summery guitar pop feel to it. They are very stacatto in places with high register Lennonesque vocals and definitely qualify as toe-tapping, and more than catchy enough to warrant the interest of the audience.

3. The Circle are also a band from Manchester, who recorded several songs at a youth club recording studio in Stretford, Manchester, including Just For The Rush, which was released on an independent compilation in 2002.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Circle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.