The 2 Bears are a British musical duo formed in 2009 composed of Joe Goddard (of electronic band Hot Chip) and Raf Rundell (previously of 1965 Records). The duo produces original material amalgamating various styles including 2-step, house, hip-hop and soul and also host a radio show on Ministry of Sound Radio entitled "Follow the Bears". Critics offer various descriptions of The 2 Bears' sound including "pop-hip-house", "liquid-bmore-house-step" and "rave-garage". The 2 Bears have received UK national radio support from DJs including Fearne Cotton, Scott Mills, Nick Grimshaw, Greg James, Annie Mac, Huw Stephens, Kissy Sell Out, Dev, Rob Da Bank and John Kennedy. The duo have produced remixes for several established artists including Santigold, Metronomy, Toddla T and The View.

Raf Rundell, a former press officer, and Joe Goddard, one fith of electronic music band Hot Chip, met while working together at the Greco-Roman soundsystem parties. Joe has told how the band originated from the suggestion of a friend who proposed that he, Raf and Joe Mount (from the band Metronomy) form a band called 'The 3 Bears'. The band ultimately formed as a two piece without Joe Mount. During their formative studio sessions Raf & Joe created the tracks 'Mercy Time' and 'Be Strong', which went on to appear on their first EP 'Follow The Bears', released by Southern Fried Records in early 2010. 'Follow The Bears' was supported by a subsequent remix EP featuring contributions from Derrick Carter & Supabeatz. The Bears went on to release a further two EPs on Southern Fried Records, 'Curious Nature EP' in the latter part of 2010 and 'Bearhug EP' in early 2011. Both were accompanied by further remix EPs with contributors including Maxxi Soundsystem and Midland. The 2 Bears first complete album Be Strong was released on January 29, 2012, and was preceded by the single 'Work' on January 2. The single was included on the XFM playlist. They also made a mix album, 2 Bears 1 Love which featured Wiley, Toddla T, and remixes from the 2 Bears. They also announced a second LP titled 'The Night is Young' was to be released in September 2014 on Southern Fried Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+2+Bears">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.