Since its creation in 1997, Paris, France by Manuel Munoz (Vocals, Guitars) and Nicolas Chevrollier (Guitars), The Old Dead Tree always stood apart in the current European metal scene thanks to its unique musical identity: a style which combines extreme metal and dark rock / pop with exceptional vocals, gliding from one style to the next. 

By 1999, this was already clearly evident, when Frédéric Guillemot (Drums) and Vincent Danhier (Bass) decided to join and secure the line-up. The press and fans enthusiastically praised and welcomed the band’s first release: a mini-CD, “The Blossom”. 

This promising debut took a sudden tragic turn, when Frédéric Guillemot committed suicide just a few months later. The band members were inspired to exorcise the dramatic loss of their close friend by expressing the darkest feelings and frustration this trauma provoked in a new concept album. The result was “The Nameless Disease”, produced by Andy Classen (Legion Of The Damned, Dew-Scented, Die Apokalyptischen Reiter, Disbelief, Graveworm…) and mastered by Goran Finberg (IN FLAMES, Opeth, Dimmu Borgir…), an album which carried a powerful, aggressive and modern sound. In 2002, the band signed a deal with Season of Mist which finally gave Frédéric’s epic eulogy a proper release. The Old Dead Tree performed several shows and toured at various festivals for the record, with the likes of Opeth, Katatonia and Paradise Lost.

Franck Métayer, at the drums since 1999, decided to leave in 2004, later joined Breaklose for a couple of years, and is now a member of Interria. He was replaced by Foued Moukid (now in Arkan) whose debut performance with the The Old Dead Tree appeared on the 2005 album, “The Perpetual Motion”. The band played at several high profile festivals over the summer of 2005 to promote the album’s release, including at “Summer Darkness” (NL) and “Fury Fest” (FR).

Sophomore album “The Perpetual Motion” was fully produced by Andy Classen at the Stage One Studio (Germany) and the collaboration proved to be particularly successful. The album received raving reviews late Summer 2005. Throughout the fall and winter of that year, The Old Dead Tree hit the road with Dutch gothic metallers Epica for a full European tour, and performed several shows as headliners in France and the Benelux.

On May 2006, guitarist and founding member Nicolas Chevrollier called its quits to focus on his family, as he would soon become a father. The strong friendship binding the members of the band made the decision particularly difficult. A replacement was found in Gilles Moinet (main composer of doom metal act Luc Incerta), a man with a deep sense of melody who quickly found his place and brought new influences to The Old Dead Tree. 

After several more shows, the band members started working on their third album early 2007. The recording sessions and the whole mixing and mastering process took place in June at the Stage One Studio, once again with irreplaceable producer Andy Classen. The wait is now over and The Old Dead Tree have given birth to their new album “The Water Fields”. This title is based upon an imaginary place where one finds refuge from pain and everyday doubts. “This is a concept album about avoidance, kidding oneself, and the urge we have to hide from reality and to remain passive when we are on tenterhooks...” says Manuel Munoz. “The band went further again, reaching a new stage in terms of song writing and maturity. This album is much heavier and darker, but also more diverse and full of sheer emotion! Even the production of Andy Classen outdoes the job on our previous material…”

The Old Dead Tree disbanded in November 2009.

In January 2013, The Old Dead Tree announced their reunion and that they will play at the Hellfest festival. The 2013 line-up is Manuel Munoz (vocals & guitar), Nicolas Chevrollier (guitar), Gilles Moinet (bass) and Raphaël Antheaume (drums)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Old+Dead+Tree">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.