There are multiple artists with this name:

1) The Citizens are an American band consisting of five members: Thom Loubet (guitar), Mark Lesseraux (vocals, keyboards), Jason Dimatteo (bass), John Bollinger (drums) and Katherine Miller (vocals, keyboards). The band debuted in 2002.

2) The Citizens are a London-based British indie funk and hip-hop band consisting of three members: Charly (vocals, guitar), Tom (bass) and Guillaume (drums)..

3) The Citizens are a teenage punk duo from Asheville, NC.

4) The Citizens were a Pittsburgh-based American ska band consisting of six members: Jon McCune (vocals, guitar), Chris McCune (vocals, drums, Jake Huffmeyer (saxophone), Dan Rosa (vocals, bass), Greg Hill (trumpet) and Kevin Corcoran (trombone). The band debuted in 1996 and split in 2002.

The band sometimes used additional members: Chris Bowser (vocals, guitar, bass), Mike Webber (trombone), Scott Rutledge (vocals, bass), Chad Neville (tenor saxophone, vocals) and Chris "Duke" Newcome (vocals, guitar). It released two albums: How to Start a Riot (2001) and So, Anyway (EP, 2002).

5) The Citizens are a Riga-based Latvian alternative rock band consisting of six members: Jānis Pētersons (vocals, guitar), Līva Aldere (vocals), Rihards Klūga (guitar), Roberts Veics (bass), Reinis Višķeris (keyboards) and Krišjānis Auziņš (drums). The band debuted in 2010.

6) The Citizens, formerly Christian Slayder (2006 - 2010), were a band based out of the San Francisco Bay Area who, in 2010, started playing a new form of music based around the peanut butter - chocolate situation of country and rock, with a strong emphasis on kicking ass. They had 3 members: Kerry (Guitars, Vocals), Allen (Bass Guitar), and Ian (Drums). You can find their first album at their Bandcamp. They went on hiatus in 2012 after the release of one full-length and three demos. There are live videos of performances by the band  here. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Citizens">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.