The Robocop Kraus are a post-punk revival/indie rock band from Nürnberg, Germany.

They formed in 1998 from the ashes of emo/hardcore bands Maggat and cyan, with Thomas Lang as lead singer and on guitar, Matthias Wendl on guitar, Johannes Uschalt on drums, and Roman Maul on bass. Maul left before the release of a split EP with The Cherryville on Swing Deluxe records, Lang and Uschalt's record company. Tobias Helmlinger replaced Maul on bass and Markus Steckert joined in on keyboards and organ. After touring with Yage , The Robocop Kraus followed their split EP with The Cherryville up with their first full-length album in 1999 entitled Inferno Nihilistique 2000, again, on Swing Deluxe. The band toured Germany, France, and Spain in support of Inferno Nihilistique 2000.

In 2001, the band released their second album and first worldwide release Tiger on Day After Records, a Czech record label. They toured in support of Tiger throughout Germany, France, Holland, the Czech Republic, Poland, England, and Ireland with The World/Inferno Friendship Society and Yage. A year later, The Robocop Kraus released As Long As We Dance We Are Not Dead, a two CD collection of rarities including songs from The Robocop Kraus/The Cherryville split EP. They hooked up with The World/Inferno Friendship Society once more for a US tour and followed that up with another tour across Japan in 2002.

2003 saw the release of their third album Living With Other People on L'Age D'Or.

After Hans Christian Fuss replaced Johannes Uschalt on drums, The Robocop Kraus began recording their fourth studio album They Think They Are The Robocop Kraus in February 2005 at Grōndahl Studios with Pelle Gunnerfeldt. They released They Think They Are The Robocop Kraus in Germany on June 20, 2005 followed by a European wide release on September 5, 2005.

On February 2006, They Think They Are The Robocop Kraus was released in the US and The Robocop Kraus were touring with Art Brut in support of this album.

In 2007, Tobias was replaced by Peter Tiedeken on bass.

On September 21st 2007, the fifth album "Blunders and Mistakes" was released. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Robocop+Kraus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.