The Unravelling is a progressive rock/metal duo from Calgary, Canada. Described by Pure Grain Audio as “overflowing with a bloodthirsty passion”, and inspired by diverse artists such as Dead Can Dance, Tool, Opeth, Nine Inch Nails, Arcana, and Dillinger Escape Plan, the Unravelling's music ranges from the engaging and inviting to the aggressive and threatening (their "Fire Breather" Tibetan Protest video went viral, gaining over 70,000 views on YouTube). A confidante of the band remarked that "The Unravelling sounds like the illegitimate love child of Lisa Gerrard And Zack de la Rocha". SMN News says "The Unravelling have created a cult-like following", and Music Connection Magazine named them in their top 25 new music picks of 2009.

The project's founder and instrumentalist, Gustavo De Beauville, composes and records the music while singer Steve Moore (of Inner Surge & Post Death Soundtrack) writes the lyrics and vocal parts. Having moved to Calgary from Barbados in 2006, Gus spent the greater part of 2007 composing the material for the first album. "Until meeting Steve in the fall of 2008 - I had not met any musicians who were this driven and hungry for progress. He definitely inspired me to be as industrious as I could in the pursuit of music." says De Beauville.

The debut full length album "13 Arcane Hymns", a psycho-analytical concept album in the tradtion of Pink Floyd's "The Wall", Nine Inch Nails's "The Downward Spiral" and Faith no More's "Angeldust", was released May 13, 2010. "13 Arcane Hymns" is a concept album partially based on being buried alive and coming back from the perceived dead. The Unravelling have shared the stage with respected heavy acts such as Helmet and Bison BC. Stalker Magazine calls the album "an excellent debut", while Pitch Black Magazine calls the album "a 13-track emotional and industrial-infused metal masterpiece". Music Connection Magazine says "The weapons-grade riffage and wailing vocals make a serious impact." The album was nominated for three 2010 Alberta Metal Awards (winning in the "Best Production" category) and topped the CJSW Metal Charts in July 2010. "13 Arcane Hymns" can be downloaded for free at www.theunravellingmusic.com. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Unravelling">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.