The Aerium band was born in 2001, but it's suitable to say that it was as an idea only. The three of them (Alex, Andrew and Kirill) played together since 1999 in the project called "Version". 

In 2002 Igor and Veronika joined the band. 

Two years later they decided to begin a new project, quite different from the previous one.

At this time they finally defined the concept of their music and began creating songs with symphonic scores and opera vocals. This brought melody and some kind of tragic element to the music. The first song created and recorded was "The Bones", but it wasn't included in demos. The first recorded song to define the style of the band was "Song For the Dead King".

At the end of 2002 the Aerium recorded the first demo-CD including three songs: ("Song For the Dead King", "Sentinel" and "Wanderer").

In 2003 they worked on new material, played gigs and finally decided to record some of new songs. Those records was planned both as an album and as demo-CD. 

Recording was finished in July 2004 and the result was forty minute long CD titled "Song For the Dead King". Now the band is working on new material and preparing for a local concert tour. In October 2004 The Aerium signed a contract with Greek metal label Black Lotus for two albums and one optional. 

Release of the first album "Song For the Dead King" is scheduled for November. 

Part II.

All during 2005 the band was writing and rehearsing new material. Recording of the second album was scheduled to begin in the autumn of 2005, but it was then delayed to Jan 2006, and finally to autumn 2006 by the wish of BLR. During that time the line-up had changed; Kirill Novikov, the guitarist, left the band and Lev Chistyakov replaced him. Lev fits the band very well. By spring of 2006 the band decided to record one more demo because of plenty of new songs. 

"Reviving A Hero - Demo2006" - contains three songs of the newest material. The style of the music had slightly changed so these songs were chosen to show it from the best point of view. 

At that moment the band was planning to play some gigs and prepare for the second studio album recording session which is planned for autumn 2006. 

In the autumn of 2006 Veronka left the band and Anastasia took her place. A demo "Hounds of my Mind" was then recorded.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Aerium">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.