1) THE BELIEVERS (www.thebelieversusa.com) are currently touring to support their new 2009 release "Lucky You." Their previous release "Crashyertown" was released in April 2005 to critical acclaim and spent 16 straight weeks in the top 20 of the Americana Music Association chart. More acclaim followed overseas when Crashyertown hit #1 on the Euro-Americana chart - being chosen as album of the week on many BBC shows including the legendary Bob Harris Country Program.

Back in the States THE BELIEVERS hopped in their vintage Serro Scotty trailer and began a North American tour that would span 7 months. Taking them from their home in Nashville, to the Gulf, East & West Coasts, Mid West, Canada & Alaska – sharing the stage with artists as diverse as Buddy Miller to Buddy Guy . . . Jim Lauderdale to Rickie Lee Jones.

A six week tour of Europe followed. Sold out venues and a British press buzz made international rock stars of the relatively unknown duo of Craig Aspen & Cynthia Frazzini.

Before THE BELIEVERS, Craig Aspen was vagabond singer songwriter. Landing himself in places like New Orleans, South Carolina and South America, he finally met Cynthia in Seattle. She already had a rich musical history as the singer in many country & rock bands from Denver to the Pacific Northwest. Magic was born from the very first song they sang together, the Gram Parsons classic, “Hickory Wind”. After that initial meeting, the pair went on to record their first album, 2002’s self released, Row. 

Reminiscent of a young Linda Rondstadt and a twangy Elvis Costello – their voices blend together like the Louvin Brothers on fire. The Believers music will swing, sing, lament, honky-tonk, bluegrass and rock you right in to their own little world of indie-Americana.
 
2) The Believers is a house project of Roy Davis Jr that had a big hit with 'Who Dares To Believe In Me?' which was released by Strictly Rhythm (US) and Sound of Ministry (UK)

3) The Believers are also a punk band from China. They have an album called "Fuck The Red Land".

4) The Believers were a rock band based out of Charlottesville, Virginia, featuring Charlie Pastorfield (Skip Castro Band) on vocals and guitar, Jimmy Carpenter on saxophone and vocals, and various drummers and bass players. I can remember at least 3 different bass players and 3, maybe 4 drummers. Their music was very much blues-heavy, but they had a solid core following that was based around the class of '60-'70, so they did a lot of old 60's rock covers, like 'Shotgun', 'Do You Wanna Dance', and 'Twist & Shout'. They put on shows with great energy all around the central and northern virginia area for years. Perhaps they are still around. They put out two or three independently released CDs, but they were sponsored by Budweiser, for a while.

5) The Believers were a glam/punk/noise band from Massachusetts in the early to mid-2000s.
 A few of the Son of Earth/Apostasy clan have decided to rise from their tap-tap tinker knees to celebrate their more erectile rockist desires. A distinct lust for things Bowie and Reed has birthed a horribly attractive no-boogie glam gloop called The Believers. Bass player Matt Krefting, at 6 foot 6 inches, had singer Jessi Swenson hold a copy of Lou Reed Live next to his scalp in one hand and with the other scissor his hair in direct proportion to Lou's. With black fingernails and extremely ill high-water leather pants, he struts and strikes his instrument like a primo new wave gork from the backwoods of 1977. Jessi in hot hot hot pants speils wonder-glam recitations whilst the others, in varying degrees of hairy transition, groove a thorny hybrid of woodsy punk and neon junk. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Believers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.