The Dykeenies are an art pop four piece named after the race of creatures from the movie “Willow”.

Hailing from the Glaswegian satellite town of Cumbernauld, they comprise of two brothers – Brian (vocals/synths), and Andrew Henderson (bass) – and two childhood friends, Steven Ramsay (guitar) and John Kerr (drums), all aged between 20 and 25. There were originally 5 members but Alan Henderson (guitar) left in December 2008.

Since they formed in the summer of 2005, The Dykeenies have played numerous sold out shows around Scotland, as well as supporting the likes of Maxïmo Park, The Fratellis and Mystery Jets.

The band got their big break when they played the “Your Sound” night - a platform for unsigned talent, at Glasgow’s legendary King Tuts, the venue where an unknown Oasis were signed on the spot by the then head of Creation Records, Alan Mcgee in 1993. The Dykeenies became the first signing to the King Tuts’ Recordings label, whose aim is to release one off singles by new bands with a view to bringing them to the attention of other labels.

The double A side single, “New Ideas/Will It Happen Tonight” was released in July 2006 and was a perfect showcase for their angular punk pop melodies. It did the trick. They have secured reams of glowing press from the Scottish media as well as a playlist on XFM Scotland and London. The single also brought them to the attention of Steve Lamacq, who supported the release and invited the band to do a live session.

The Dykeenies are now turning their attention south of the border. Having been championed by the New Music editor at NME after he received an early demo, they secured an opening slot on the NME Rock ‘n Roll Riot tour with The Horrors, The Maccabees and The Fratellis. 

Now signed to Lavolta Records, The Dykeenies released debut EP “Waiting For Go”, on the label on November 27th. Written by the band, the eighties inspired lead track was produced by Jim Abbiss (Arctic Monkeys/Kasabian/Editors) and mixed by Cenzo Townshend (New Order/U2/Kaiser Chiefs). The EP also features “Things You Cannot See”, “Feels Like Sleep” and “Dark Time”, which showcase the band’s unique brand of spiky, indie pop and flair for infectious choruses that whirl around your head long after the CD has left your stereo.

In April of 2007 the band released "New Ideas", which debuted at #54 in the UK, whilst entering at #2 in Scotland. They have since embarked on two UK tours and have just released "Clean Up Your Eyes", with the album "Nothing Means Everything" due for release in September 2007.

Never forget...The Dykeenies love you! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Dykeenies">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.