The Sound of Animals Fighting are an experimental/prog rock band from Los Angeles, California that incorporated many members, including members from bands such as Finch, Rx Bandits, Circa Survive and Chiodos. The group was brought together by Rich Balling.

All parts of the album Tiger and the Duke were recorded individually and each member was only able to hear the part they contributed to the album. The only member who heard the whole album during its recording process was Balling. The group released their next album Lover, the Lord Has Left Us... on May 30th, 2006.

 Keith Goodwin was announced as one of the vocalists for the next album, taking on the pseudonym of 'The Penguin'.

The Sound of Animals Fighting have only performed live four times, all of which were released on a DVD, entitled "We Must Become The Change We Want To See". Three of their four shows took place in California (Anaheim, L.A., and San Diego), USA, and one in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA. 

With the release of The Ocean And The Sun, the band issued a series of 400 masks, 100 of each of 4 designs, paired with a 7" for a limited preorder of the album. This was the first and only vinyl release and novelty item sold by the band.

Original Lineup(Tiger And The Duke): 

The Nightingale - Rich Balling (Vocals), formerly of the Rx Bandits.
The Walrus - Matt Embree (Lead Guitar), Lead Vocals/Guitar for Rx Bandits.
The Lynx - Chris Tsagakis (Drums), Drums for Rx Bandits.
The Tiger - Randy "R2K" Strohmeyer (Guitar), Guitar for Finch.
The Tortoise - Derek Doherty (Bass), Bass for Finch.
The Skunk - Anthony Green (Vocals), Vocalist for Circa Survive.
The Bear - Chris Fudurich (Mixing and Programming), Produced for Rx Bandits, Nada Surf, and Allister.
The Raven - Marc Mcknight (Artwork), Bass for Atreyu.
The Swan - Vanessa Chibba (Public Relations)
The Dog - Chris Haynie (Author of Story that Accompanies the Music)
The Ferret - Kyle Homme (Engineer)
The Octopus - Charlie Adams (Patrone)
The Armadillo - Rich Zahniser (Engineer, Vocals), Ex-Hippos
The Llamma - Matthew Kelly (Vocals), Vocalist for The Autumns

Previous Lineup(Lover, The Lord Has Left Us...):

The Nightingale - Rich Balling (Vocals), formerly of the Rx Bandits.
The Walrus - Matt Embree (Lead Guitar), Lead Vocals/Guitar for the Rx Bandits.
The Lynx - Chris Tsagakis (Drums), Drums for the Rx Bandits.
The Hyena - Ryan Baker (Recording, Mixing).
The Skunk - Anthony Green (Vocals), Vocalist for Circa Survive.
The Giraffe - Stephen O'Malley (Album Artwork), Guitarist for Sunn O))).
The Ram - Craig Owens (Vocals), former Vocalist of Chiodos and Cinematic Sunrise.
The Penguin - Keith Goodwin (Vocals), Vocalist for Days Away and Good Old War.
The Wolf - Matthew Kelly (Vocals), Vocalist for The Autumns.

Previous Lineup (The Ocean and The Sun):

The Nightingale - Rich Balling (Vocals), formerly of the Rx Bandits.
The Walrus - Matt Embree (Guitar, Bass, and Production), Lead Vocals/Guitar for the Rx Bandits.
The Lynx - Chris Tsagakis (Drums), Drums for the Rx Bandits.
The Skunk - Anthony Green (Vocals), Vocalist for Circa Survive.
The Wolf - Matthew Kelly (Vocals), Vocalist for The Autumns provides guest vocals on "On The Occasion Of Wet Snow" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Sound+of+Animals+Fighting">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.