THE UPRISING is a band from Orange County, California with old school roots in the OC punk scene. THE UPRISING is the bastard son of EL CENTRO (OC punk rock since 1993). THE UPRISING is comprised of 4 members, three of which have played together in bands for the better part of 15 years. THE UPRISING's sound is a solid, politically charged OC punk sound. THE UPRISING is Crabby on vocals, Brett on guitar, Gil on bass, and Danny on drums.

THE UPRISING's first release will be a 6 song CD EP called "We Don't Belong". The new material is being recorded under the watchful eyes and ears of Greg Hetson (Bad Religion/Circle Jerks) and Jim Monroe (NARC studios) who are producing the CD for the band. Also showing their love for this project is Jim Lindberg (Pennywise), who sang guest vocals on the new CD EP. It's been a real honor for THE UPRISING to work with these guys over the past months.

Probably the most amazing thing about THE UPRISING is the fact that they are even able to play today. In 2002 the bands singer Steve "Crabby" Cabler was in a nightclub in Bali, Indonesia when a 2000 lbs. terrorist bomb killed over 200 people. Crabby lost his best friend in the blast (RIP Steve "Webby" Webster), and was severely injured himself. He had a broken scapula, blown out cochlias in his ears, and third degree burns on his ears, hands, and elsewhere.

Burned and broken, Crabby returned to the US not able to pay his rising medical bills or rent, etc.. The US government turned their back on Crabby since he was not a victim of terrorism on American soil like the 911 victims. The punk rock community (Pennywise, US Bombs, Unit F, Shattered Faith, DI, The Rolemodels, Drain Bramaged, El Nada, The Line and Arkham, special props to Troy Eckert and Volcom) however did NOT turn their back. The punk rock community came together for a benefit show which raised enough money to pay Crabby's medical bills and get him back on his feet.

Crabby has since overcome most of his physical injuries, and despite doctors telling him he would never be able to sing again... He's making more noise than ever. It turns out he and the band have something to say.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Uprising">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.