Philadelphia's The Capitol Years debuted in July 2001 with the homemade full-length, Meet Yr Acres.

Co-produced by Thom Monahan (Devendra Banhart, Pernice Brothers, Beachwood Sparks), the self-released Meet Yr Acres spent much of 2001 innocently making its way around the globe while garnering a goldmine of critical accolades and regular comparisons to Beck, Bob Pollard, George Harrison, and Bob Dylan. All of this unexpected critical attention culminated in a spot on Magnet Magazine's "Top 10 Hidden Treasures" list.

Urged to leave the bedroom and share his music with a live audience, Halperin (aka Shai, Son of Eli) recruited Dave Wayne Daniels, Jeff Van Newkirk and Sir Kyle Lloyd on bass, guitar and drums, respectively. Immediately, The Capitol Years sought to do away with the 'one-man band' aesthetic of Meet Yr Acres and began concentrating on new material. With collective backgrounds in noise-rock as well as Beatle-esque pop, this full-band incarnation of The Capitol Years immediately generated a buzz in Philadelphia's growing music scene. Word quickly spread about this maniacal live band whose songcraft suggested Guided By Voices as much as their performances recalled The Who.

Ready to take their show to the national level, The Capitol Years set out on a series of U.S. tours, sharing the stage with bands as diverse as The Brian Jonestown Massacre, Rooney, The Kills, Lilys, Daniel Johnston, Crooked Fingers, and Beachwood Sparks. Tours of the UK, Spain, and Israel followed, allowing the band to spread the buzz overseas.

In the midst of this frenzied touring, The Capitol Years sought to capture their live energy on tape and returned to the studio. They once again commissioned Monahan as well as Philadelphia's Brian McTear (Mazarin, A-Sides) to record their first full-band release: the 6 track EP, Jewelry Store. And while Jewelry Store documented The Capitol Years' garage rock tendencies, it also helped to set them apart from the crowd as it featured the goose-bump-inducing harmonies and melodies that typify The Capitol Years' sound. Sonically, the band had moved several worlds away from the subtle and sometimes lush Meet Yr Acres. But the critical praise continued…

In 2003, at the height of a national garage rock craze, The Capitol Years released their 'long lost' album, Pussyfootin. Originally recorded in 2001, it was another homemade and self-produced gem from their one-man band past. The album was as far removed from garage rock as one could travel with an acoustic guitar and a harmonica, and its lush and country-tinged sound helped solidify the respect of local scribes. At year's end, and with their popularity rising, The Capitol Years were named Philadelphia Magazine's "Best Band of 2003."


Continued touring and television appearances, as well as a handpicked opening slot for The Pixies' first show in 12 years, have helped generate a significant buzz for one of Philadelphia's best bands.

In 2004 the band began recording its first true full-length and full-band album. Renting a house in the small town of Northampton, MA for two weeks, The Capitol Years and Thom Monahan created Let Them Drink. Byrds-like harmonies, Stooges riffs, and even ethereal Coldplay atmospherics coexist on Let Them Drink, a record that enjoyed success overseas as well as on American tv and radio.

A year later The Capitol Years began work on the forthcoming Dance Away the Terror, the most realized collection of songs and sounds the band has ever recorded. The self produced album marks a return to the Capitol Years own production style, featuring lush harmonies, interweaving piano and guitar hooks, and a homemade feel connected with so many listeners early in the band's career. The end result is certain to stand the test of tastes and time. Dance Away the Terror is set for release in 2006 on Park The Van Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Capitol+Years">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.