The Human Beinz are an American rock band from Youngstown, Ohio, originally known as The Human Beings. The original line-up featured Dick Belly (vocals, guitar), Joe Markulin (guitar), Mel Pachuta (bass) and Mike Tateman (drums).

The Beinz began their professional career with a devoted local fanbase, recording covers of songs by Them, The Yardbirds, The Who and Bob Dylan. The group was also the first to record "The Pied Piper," which later became a #1 hit for Crispian St. Peters. The group had a reputation as masters of song interpretation.

They signed to Capitol Records in 1967 and released their only Billboard Top 40 hit, "Nobody but Me" (first recorded by the Isley Brothers, who wrote it). "Nobody" peaked at #8 in January 1968. An album, Evolutions, followed. The Beinz' next single, "Turn On Your Love Light," flopped in the US (peaking at #80) but shot to #1 (for six weeks) in Japan and a tour followed. "Turn On Your Love Light" (a hit for Bobby Bland in 1962, and later covered by several artists, including Jerry Lee Lewis) featured "It's Fun To Be Clean", a snappy tune reminiscent of the Beatles' Penny Lane, as the B-side. Later in 1968, Capitol released the single "Hold on Baby" only in Japan where it also hit the top of the charts. Despite their Nipponese success, the Human Beinz broke up soon thereafter.


REVIVAL

In 2004, Quentin Tarantino used "Nobody But Me" on the soundtrack for his film Kill Bill: Vol. 1; also, the tune is featured on two compilation CDs: "ESPN's The Greatest Crowd-Rockin' Anthems Of All Time" and "J&R's Music World Presents Rock And Roll's Greatest Hits Of All Time"). The song made yet another appearance in Martin Scorcese's 2006 film The Departed.

Currently, a group of four musicians (none of them original memebers) tour as the Human Beinz, having bought the rights to the name. The "new" Beinz play county fairs and other smaller venues in the Midwest and Northeast. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Human+Beinz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.