The 1975 are an English band formed in 2002 in Wilmslow, Cheshire. Now based in Manchester, the band consists of lead vocalist, producer, lyricist and rhythm guitarist Matty Healy (the son of actors Denise Welch and Tim Healy), lead guitarist Adam Hann, bassist Ross MacDonald, and drummer/producer George Daniel.

The band's origins trace to their attendance at secondary school and playing together as teenagers. Initial efforts to sign with a label failed, leading to the band's manager Jamie Oborne to form Dirty Hit records. The band opened for several major acts and released a series of EPs (Facedown, Sex, Music for Cars, IV) throughout 2012 before releasing their self-titled debut album (2013), which included the popular singles "Sex", "Chocolate", and "Robbers" and reached number one in the United Kingdom.

Their second album, I Like It When You Sleep, for You Are So Beautiful yet So Unaware of It (2016), reached No. 1 in the US, UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Following the touring cycle for the record, the band announced their third album under the working title of Music for Cars, before going on hiatus again throughout 2017.

Returning in 2018, the band announced that the album had evolved into their third campaign cycle, consisting of their third and fourth studio albums. The first, A Brief Inquiry into Online Relationships (2018), was released to widespread critical acclaim, and became their third No. 1 album in the UK. The second, Notes on a Conditional Form, was released in May 2020 and became their fourth consecutive No. 1 album in the UK.

The 1975 has garnered acclaim for their relevant lyricism and exploration of an eclectic range of genres such as pop rock, synth-pop, R&B, electropop, new wave forms of electronic music (such as UK garage, 2-step and ambient), and forms of rock music (such as shoegaze, post-punk and post-rock), as well as elements of jazz, soul and gospel. Healy, meanwhile, <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+1975">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.