The Minds of 99 is a Danish post-punk band, formed in 2012. The band, consisting of five childhood friends, won DR's Karrierrekanonen in 2013. The first single, "Det er Knud som er død", from their debut album, is based on a poem by the Danish journalist and writer Tom Kristensen about the Danish scientist and national hero Knud Rasmussen. Niels Brandt received the poem on a postcard from a friend and was so drawn to the text that he set it to music. Later, Brandt found out that Knud Rasmussen had been his grandfather's godfather. The song reached first place on Det Elektriske Barometer and became P3's Uundgåelige in February 2014. 

Niels Brandt (lead singer), Jacob Bech-Hansen (synth), Mikkel Bech-Hansen (keys) and Asger Wissing (bass) have known each other since kindergarten at Lindevangskolen in Frederiksberg. Anders Folke Larsen (guitar) and Louis Clausen (drums) joined the group of friends in their early teens. In April 2012, the six met in a kitchen on Smallegade, and at the invitation of Niels Brandt, they decided to form a band. The group's name was inspired by Brandt's listening to KLF's track Justified and Ancient, in which 'Make mine a "99"' is rapped during the track, which he misheard as Minds of 99.

The band won at the 2015 Årets Steppeulv for Song of the Year ("Det er Knud som er død"), as well as at the 2015 Carl Prisen for both Talent of the Year and Best Rock Songwriters of the Year. The band has received multiple nominations as well at both Danish Music Awards (Danish Group of the Year, Best New Danish Act, Best Rock Publication), GAFFA-prisen (Best New Danish Act, Best Rock Publication), and Zulu Awards (Best New Danish Act).

The Minds of 99 were the opening act at Roskilde Festival 2015. The concert was named as the best opener of the festival in years by various media outlets. In addition, they have had sold-out concerts at the largest arenas in Denmark, Ceres Arena (Aarhus, 2019), Royal Arena (Copenhagen, 2019), and Parken (Copenhagen, 2021)

Albums:
The Minds of 99 (May 2014)
Liber (October 2015)
Solkongen (October 2017)
Infinity Action (January 2022) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Minds+of+99">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.