The Assault is an American Sorority Garage Band.

Their reputation for passionate, thrilling and intense rock and roll nights precedes them. SPIN Magazine and the Village Voice have praised this trio's rupture of the colossal Brooklyn rock scene on account of their glammy, rollicking stage shows. The Assault wear many different musical colors: the strawberry blonde of folk, the auburn of 70s southern rock, white hot metal, platinum and gold classic rock, the silver of psych and the blackest-black of dirty garage. Genre and gender pigeon holes all give way to the simple truth: these women know their rock, and know how to bring it.

While Julie Pop pounds on the toms like a madwoman, flipping her sticks in the air and furiously pounding the double bass pedal, Laura Leontine brings a mysterious coyness on the bass lines. Margot Bianca, lead chanteuse, plays to the crowd with catchy riffs & swirly solos, her distinct and versatile voice soaring above the fray. Laura's harmonies and co-leads contrast this with a valley girl edge and a no-nonsense statement of purpose. They're not so angry, and not too self-conscious. These three proudly wear their hearts on your sleeves, rocking harder with each new town and venue.

Regularly playing establishments in New York City such as the Mercury Lounge, Knitting Factory, Pianos, & North Six they have shared the bill with The Gossip, Tracy & The Plastics, Mr. Airplane Man, Demolition Doll Rods, Weird War and many more. The band ventured on tour of the East Coast in 2005, playing as far down south as Knoxville, TN and ending at Boston's Middle East club.  In March 2006 The Assault put together a self promoted tour of the USA playing venues in Rochester NY, Detroit, Chicago, Minneapolis, Seattle, San Francisco, LA, Las Vegas, New Mexico, Austin, Memphis, Nashville, North Carolina, Georgia and Virginia.

After a well-received demo ("Written in the Stars") circled town for a good while, they released "Come On In" in May '05 and "Heart/Muscle" in October '05. Both singles reflect the paradox of vicious sweetness The Assault brings to composition. Each song swoops around tempo, genre, and mood: from a soft, guitar-and-vocal driven melody, to a powerhouse of sonic energy that exudes heavy rhythm. "Heart/Muscle," a 2-song CDEP, is the most dramatic in contrast. It kicks in with "Chooser of the Slain," a mostly instrumental Sabbath-esque metal jam with three part "oohs" and bursts of dramatic rocking. Then simmers into "Rue the Day," a heartfelt and melodic ballad that culminates in a psychedelic echo-laden frenzy.

Named "Band to Watch in '06" by popular NYC music blog Product Shop NYC, their future seems bright indeed.

www.theassaultonrock.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/The+Assault">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.