The Toasters came out of the lower east side of Manhattan, New York in 1981. Cutting their teeth at legendary punk rock clubs such as CBGBs,  the band has proceeded  on to defy gravity and  industry skeptics alike by staying true to their original 2-Tone roots and earning their rightful place in the history of international ska music, particularly influential on ska punk.

In their role as consummate outsiders, the band has turned down major record deals and have opted instead to run down their own track where, with the help of collaborators such as Joe Jackson, they have recorded over 15 albums and DVDs as well as countless videos, singles, EPs, and compilation tracks. Their music has appeared in film and on television. They have penned film-scores and themes for kids’ programming on Nickelodeon. They have recorded jingles for AOL, Miller, Cisco Systems, Michelob, and  Coca-Cola amongst others.

However, it is on the road that the band has carved out their reputation and will surpass, at some juncture in 2007 the milestone of 4,500 live concerts performed throughout the world. They have been dubbed “Pioneers of Ska” (by Billboard) the “ Miles Davis of Ska and the “Ramones of Ska” alike. Tour plans for  2007 include 7 weeks in Europe (with go Jimmy Go) starting on February 1st, followed by 6 weeks in the USA with the Briggs starting in April. The band will participate in this year’s Warped Tour from July 18th until August 12th. A west coast tour is planned for the fall as well as more European dates, including England, in November

The band has had more line-up changes than the average band hot dinners, however this has only served to make them stronger and has translated into a monster set of substitutes that would make even Manchester United jealous. The band is currently going out as (the power) 5-piece: Bucket, band founder and major songwriter, is on guitar and vocals, Duckie is on drums, Jahson Nwagbaraocha is on bass and chats, Jeff Richey on sax and Greg Robinson is on the t-bone. Expect to see some special guests and familiar faces on this upcoming tour! This line-up is currently in the studio in Valencia (Spain) laying down tracks and the One More Bullet will be out early in 2007 on Stomp Records in North America and Megalith, Leech and MoonSka World labels in Europe. A Japanese release will appear on Diskunion and on Radiola records in  Brazil. 

The band is currently sponsored by the following partners: Jagermeister,  Sam Ash, Draven Shoes, SKA Brewing Company, Modern Action Shirts, and Eastpak
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Toasters">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.