The Rotted was formed from the ashes of Death Metal / Grindcore ensemble Gorerotted by ex-members Ben McCrow, Tim Carley, and Phil Wilson, along with Gian Pyres (ex-Cradle Of Filth, Christian Death, Screamin' Daemon) and Nate Gould (Ex-Screamin' Daemon) due to a musical progression and a desire for less limiting lyrical themes: the band themselves say that The Rotted and Gorerotted are two entirely different entities, with The Rotted incorporating more of a Punk/D-beat style into their brand of Death Metal. Their debut album Get Dead or Die Trying was released worldwide in the summer of 2008, and unusually includes 2 instrumental tracks; 'A Brief Moment Of Regret', which was picked up and used by a high street clothing store in their playlist during the summer of 2008, and a cover of the theme music from British Horror film 28 Days Later.

Having completed a short UK tour in July 2008 with fellow Brits Ted Maul, the band went on to play festivals such as Wacken Open Air, Dynamo, Elsrock and Summer Breeze Open Air that same year. The end of 2008 saw The Rotted playing many club shows across the UK and Germany.

In July 2008 The Rotted announced that Wilson would quit the band for personal reasons; his last show with the band was at Wacken Open Air. He has been replaced by former Screamin' Daemon frontman Reverend Trudgill. Trudgill is a professional tattoo artist, a legally ordained minister, and even founded a cult known as The Church Of Daemonology in 2002.

In April 2009, the band headlined a tour with fellow UK bands Malefice and Anterior as part of the Metal Blade Assault tour, and also appeared at various festivals including Bloodstock, Hellfire and Hammerfest in the UK, Chaos Emergente in Portugal and Headbang in the Netherlands. They later went on to join Scottish pirate metallers Alestorm for a tour in December the same year, now as a 4-piece, having parted ways with guitarist Gian Pyres.

In July 2010 The Rotted put out a self-financed, self-released EP entitled Anarchogram. UK shows with Man Must Die and Sworn Amongst in were undertaken in July, followed by European dates with Misery Index, Grave and Arsis in November, and finally 3 headline shows in Israel with The Fading in December.

The Rotted entered Parlour Studios in January and February 2011 with producer Russ Russell and recorded a second full-length album, set to be released on Candlelight Records in October/November.

In July 2011, 2 days before the band was due to perform at Obscene Extreme Festival, guitarist Tim Carley severed the end of the 5th finger of his left hand in accident. After some reconstructive surgery the same day, the band announced all festival dates would go ahead as planned. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Rotted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.