There are four different artists under this name:

1)Hardcore / Punk band from UK: www.myspace.com/thelegacy

Since the band’s formation in Sheffield in 2002, the band has remained fiercely dedicated to the work ethic that forms the basis of punk and hardcore. The Legacy put out a couple of EPs over the years on independent labels - England's Dead and Gone Records and Germany's Assault Records -before finally arriving at Visible Noise in 2007. The mini album 'Solitude’, described by Kerrang as “Fist pumpingly good. KKKK”, paved the way for the band to a new sound and attitude, cited by Mike Davies at the BBC Radio One Punk Show as “UK Hardcore at its finest” and Total Guitar as “a sharp shot of life to UK Hardcore.”

BEYOND HURT BEYOND HELL takes what was started by the Solitude EP to a whole new level. In between touring all over the UK and Europe, the band have had time to mature their sound, into a deep, bleak monster of aggression, while still retaining their trademark melodic edge. “We felt there were less restrictions when recording this album, it wasn’t just hardcore by numbers” notes guitarist Dick Smith, “This is the first record that we were truly comfortable writing". BEYOND HURT BEYOND HELL was released earlier this year and was very well received by both the public and the press, with Kerrang! magazine saying its "exaclty how hardcore should sound! KKKK".

After completing many UK tours this year with bands such as Your Demise and Gold Kids, and also a extensive trip round Europe with best friends in Gold Kids, the rest of 2008 sees The Legacy going out on the road with label buddies Bring Me The Horizon and taking time to prepare for their upcoming European tour with good friends in Killing The Dream and The Carrier. The Legacy will be working very hard and touring BEYOND HURT BEYOND HELL as much as possible, so keep your eyes peeled.

2)Gothic / Power band from Ukraine, Chernigiv (Chernigov):
http://the-legacy.org.ua
http://vkontakte.ru/club2428717

3) A Cambodian boy band under Phleng Records.
The Legacy on KhmerSong.org

4)Old rap persona taken up by the underground hip hop artist "Lil Ugly Mane" before he adopted his current name

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/The+Legacy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.