Sweden's I Hate Records, which issued THEE PLAGUE OF GENTLEMEN's debut album, "Primula Pestis", in early 2005, has released a statement disassociating itself from the alleged crimes committed by the group's frontman Steve McMillan (real name: Steven Wackenier).

Despite these initial claims in the media McMillan however was not charged with these crimes and was convicted of "indecent exposure". He served 9 months in prison, and a mandatory 6 months in a Psyciatric Hospital. The stories of child rape, photos and his confessions were found to be untrue.

McMillan was arrested by the Belgian police earlier in July in connection with what the rest of the Belgian doom metal band has categorized as "criminal acts that none of the members could ever imagine to happen and which are totally unacceptable."

According to reports in the Belgian media, Steve was arrested Tuesday, July 11 on charges of multiple child rape. So far he has confessed to the rapes of four children between the ages of 5 and 7, but it is believed that more victims were involved. In addition to sexually attacking the children, Wackenier allegedly took pictures of them, according to a press release issued by the police.

I Hate Records's statement reads as follows:

"We are shocked, disturbed and saddened to learn about the accusations of multiple child rape (and due arrest and imprisonment) directed at THEE PLAGUE OF GENTLEMEN front man Steve McMillan (real name: Steven Wackenier). This all feels like a bad dream that one just wants to wake up from, we feel sick to hear of these disgusting crimes. We hereby completely disassociate ourselves from all Steve's acts, deeds and comments in this case and express our sympathy for his victims and all other innocent people (band members, family etc.) that has become directly or indirectly affected. Our memories of Steve, in connection to the 'Doom Over Sweden' tour in 2005 and when enthusiastically discussing the details of the release of 'Primula Pestis' etc. is now soiled, dirty. To conclude: I HATE DOES IN NO WAY SUPPORT THESE KINDS OF CRIMES AGAINST INNOCENT VICTIMS AND WANT NO CONNECTION TO THIS KIND OF FILTH WHATSOEVER! ROT IN JAIL!

"As a consequence of Steve McMillan's criminal acts, that he has confessed, we have decided to delete the THEE PLAGUE OF GENTLEMEN 'Primula Pestis' album. Thus the album will no longer be available through I Hate. We feel truly sorry for the other members of TPOG that has to suffer for Steve's deeds but we must do what we feel is right."

At the time of Steve's arrest, THEE PLAGUE OF GENTLEMEN had just begun tracking their sophomore album - and their first for France's Listenable Records - which was to be titled "SerpentCult". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thee+Plague+of+Gentlemen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.