Thee Orakle

A band from Vila Real, Portugal, born in 2004, still relatively unknown. 
They represent the rare gothic metal in Portugal. 
They have an EP out, entitled Secret.

2004/2005 – In December 2004, the band was born. In March 2005, completed line-up and began the work phase, recorded the Demo with Daniel Carvalho on the first Fast Forward Studios in Oporto. The first live gig performs in the national festival of bands ROCKNORDESTE in July, where they reached the 3rd place. Thee Orakle began so showing their work for the northern region of Portugal.

2006 – The band starts the New Year with a lot of courage, the invitations that Thee Orakle received were increasing, and so the number of concerts as well. In January the band is invited to self-present in the Guimarães MetalFest. Meanwhile participates in the competition of the well known LOUD! Magazine. Foreign conquer begins through Breakthru Radio in the USA, the site LIVE 4 METAL makes also a great criticism about the good and easy behaviour of Thee Orakle´s elements and the quality of some songs. In Portugal, the Lusitânia de Peso Webzine, invites the band to promote a theme, Sea of Life (Demo 2005), for its first compilation. This year the band also works on the composition and recording of their first EP, while playing with bands like GOD, Holocausto Canibal, and so… At the end of December the band participates in the national competition of bands GA-ROCK Fest getting the great first place.

2007 – The self-edited EP Secret, came out in April, it’s a mixture of death/doom gothic metal. Thee Orakle participate on the Warm Ups Barroselas Metal Fest, and began the Secret Tour. With several concerts at the national ground, of which highlights the band, two dates in support of the Israelis Orphaned Land visit to Portugal. Thee Orakle become Iberian visiting twice the Spanish territory on rock/metal festivals. The criticism inside and outside the country increases and Secret is reviewed with positive words, it’s the Metal Team UK and the Metal Observer who speaks louder.
Meanwhile, helping broaden the horizons, some of the themes of the EP are heard regularly on radio stations in the United States, Germany and Spain, while the same happens on several national radios.
At the same time, webzines and promoters invited the band to disclose some themes in compilations. After the end of summer and the dates set for the Secret Tour, they spend most of time on the composition of the first long-length registration which will be recorded in the next year…

2008 - Thee Orakle start to create all songs to complete the debut album and at the same time, convert the rehearsal room into a pre-production home studio where all things where about to be study 'till detail. During this creation phase the band was retired from the stages and other promotional acts for about four months. At January the place for the final recordings was announced, UltraSoundStudios (Braga-PT) with Daniel Cardoso (Head Control System) as Producer. On April we began the Pre-production at our home studio and the final recordings were scheduled for August and September! Another important step was the announce, as special guest on a friendly collaboration, of Yossi Sassi Sa'Aron from the Israelites Orphaned Land playing the Bouzouki a traditional Greek guitar!

More info: 
http://www.theeorakle.com (PT/US)
http://www.myspace.com/theeorakle

Originally edited by Kaoru_YS <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thee+Orakle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.