Thera is a 5-piece Alaskan rock band forging their own brand of epic, soaring music. Their goal is to create the kind of music that ranges from majestic highs to crushing lows in the span of one song, leaving the listener breathless and reeling in its wake. Thera began writing such music after solidifying their lineup in January of 2009, and releasing the remarkably mature ep, The Aftermath, in April of 2009. However, the true beginnings of the band go back much earlier: Thera was first conceived in 2005 by founding members Ronnie Plate and Stephanie Plate in the small-town of Soldotna, Alaska, where they cut their teeth playing their first local shows. They quickly progressed to playing around the rest of the state, which brought them into contact with their future drummer, Benny Maus. They found their lead guitarist, Mason Venhaus, after moving to Oklahoma in the summer of 2007 in order to pursue both music and higher education.

After returning to Alaska in the start of 2009, Thera added their fifth and final member in bassist Steven Cornfield. They quickly regained and increased their local fanbase with the release of The Aftermath and consistent gigging.

Work on their full-length indie debut, If This Is the End..., began in the fall of 2009. Set to release in February of 2010, If This Is the End... will show the world what Thera has: all the energy and potential of a fresh new band, combined with the depth and maturity of seasoned artists. Stylistically, the music ranges from stratospheric choruses to crunchy breakdowns, piano balladry to screamo flirtations, and acoustic strumming to searing leads. Lyrically, the songs face subjects such as loss, death, and regret, but are always juxtaposed with a passion and hope intended to inspire the listener. If This Is the End... promises to be a fresh breath of air in the scene, and Thera is set to take their sound to the world.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.