These Are Powers was an experimental noise dance band from Brooklyn, New York founded by singer and guitarist Anna Barie and bassist Pat Noecker (Liars) in 2006.

With drummer Ted McGrath, These Are Powers recorded the Silver Lung 7" and Terrific Seasons LP originally released on Hoss Records and later re-released by Dead Oceans.
The early recordings were inspired by African polyrhythms, Der Blaue Reiter,  John Cage, Alice Coltrane, and Pandit Pran Nath.

During this period, the band founded the genre of Ghost Punk and often drew comparisons to artsty experimenters Sonic Youth, Throbbing Gristle and This Heat. Live shows were treated as loud, psychedelic exorcisms with long, improvised passages.

Noecker played a prepared bass with a wooden dowel put under the strings which functioned as an additional 3rd bridge. This would be the precursor to a custom designed bass by experimental Dutch luthier Yuri Landman which Noecker now uses in his solo project RAFT.

2008-2011
Producer Bill Salas (Brenmar) replaced McGrath as drummer for These Are Powers originally on a standing electro-acoustic drum kit before transitioning into more electronic production. The band wrote their Taro Tarot EP and All Aboard Future LP in Salas' hometown of Chicago between many DIY tours.

Influences at this time were Top 40 American Hip-Hop, UK Dubstep, 90's House music and New Age. These Are Powers increasingly collaborated with other musicians, dancers, visual artists, designers and videographers for their performances, elaborate costumes, set design, and gallery events, becoming more of a collective than a band.

They gained a reputation worldwide for their high energy performances, often in unusual venues. TAP performed increasingly in museums and galleries and had an artist residency in China.

Their final release was the Candyman 12" on RVNG Intl. 

The band ended in 2011.

In 2012, Barie founded the experimental electronic duo DUBAI with Johannes Buff.
Noecker records and perfoms as RAFT and Salas continues to DJ and produce as BRENMAR.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/These+Are+Powers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.