Originally conceived as a mere keyboard project in 2002, the first THEUDHO demo “Dies Natalis Solis Invicti” (2003) was released as a tribute to the last remaining stretches of European wilderness in northern and western Europe, seeking to immortalizing these diverse daunting primeval landscapes. It seemed only logical that lyrical inspiration was drawn from the myths, legends and lore that sprung from these very same lands. This demo, recorded as a one-man band by founding member Jurgen, and the extremely harsh and grim sounding successor “Under the Alemannic Sun” (2004) did not only catch the attention of fans of the pagan metal genre across the globe; the Belgian underground label NEPHEREX signed THEUDHO after hearing both demo’s.

The debut album “Treachery” (2004) displayed a dramatic improvement as far as the general sound and production went, the actual songs on the album sounded much more mature than the demo material. A number of guests contributed to the album; most notably the Norwegian vocalist Erilaz lent his voice for the Old-Norse parts in the lyrics and the lead guitarist Bastiaan, who performed breathtaking solo’s on a number of tracks. Despite being released on an label with somewhat limited promotional funds, the album received great reviews worldwide. The meticulous care with which the lyrics and the accompanying notes in the CD-booklet were written, earned the band the respect of devotees of paganism in all the corners of the world and set them apart from the numerous bands that merely rehash the same pagan clichés over and over again.

With “Treachery” being the best selling album in the NEPHEREX catalogue, THEUDHO was offered the opportunity to record another album. At this point, THEUDHO was no longer a one-man band, but a duo. Pleased with his work on “Treachery”, lead guitarist Bastiaan joined THEUDHO as a full member shortly after. After hearing some demo’s, NEPHEREX suggested adding a bass player and an actual drummer to the recording line-up to enhance the live feel and the individual and overall performances on the album. And so it happened; with Filip of GORATH on bass and Joachim of WANHOOP on drums, “The Völsunga Saga” (2006) was recorded. Conceptually, the second THEUDHO album left many pagan metal hearts in awe: the band transformed the entire medieval Icelandic Völsunga saga into a metal album, offering extensive notes in the elaborate CD-booklet.

In the meanwhile, THEUDHO stopped being a mere studio project and transformed into a live band. After performing a number of successful concerts both in Belgium and abroad, with bands such as ANCIENT RITES, KORPIKLAANI, ANGANTYR, ODROERIR,… THEUDHO started writing a third full length album, the first one to be released on a foreign label. In 2008, the German label DET GERMANSKE FOLKET released “Cult of Wuotan”, yet another major progression in both composition and performance. The unparalleled synergy of hard hitting metal, epic melodies and Wagnerian bombast spawns eleven tracks that pay tribute to the Wuotanic spirit throughout history; from the tragic endeavours of the Cimbri, the warrior cult of the Harii, the Batavian uproar and the violent death of Arminius' son to the gloomy rituals and executions performed in desolate moors for the greater glory of Wuotan, Donar and Frô.

When bassist Filip and THEUDHO amicably decide to part ways (guitarist/vocalist Jurgen wrote all the lyrics and liner notes of the GORATH album “Misotheism” and Filip's ambient metal project HORUS), THEUDHO functions as a three piece for the recording of the CELTIC FROST cover “Dethroned Emperor” and the acoustic folk track “Austrôn” for the Russian “Ritual” compilation, which also features the beautiful voice of guest vocalist Claudia. 

After securing a new live line-up, consisting of guitarist/vocalist Jurgen, lead guitarist Bastiaan, bassist Frederik and drummer Joachim, THEUDHO started playing live again; most notably with bands such as WAYLANDER, CRUACHAN, HEIDEVOLK, ELUVEITIE and SKYFORGER. This line-up makes its recording début for the SUMMONING tribute album “... And In the Darkness Bind Them”, tackling the song “Marching Homewards”. They also record the BATHORY cover “A Fine Day To Die”, featuring guest vocals of AHRÁYEPH main man Raf.

When drummer Joachim is sadly forced to quit drumming due to a sustained injury in July 2009, Tony of the folk black metal band HEIMAT steps in as a session drummer. The band performs with cult black metal band ENTHRONED as well as veterans CADUCITY and teams up with happy troll bashers WAPENSPRAAK & DRINKGELAG for a BATHORY tribute gig.

Later that year, THEUDHO is again invited to perform in the Netherlands as a headliner for Einherjar Fest with MYRKVAR, GRIMHORDE, ENCORION and VANIR.

At the end of 2009, THEUDHO decide to record a free digital EP with the then current live line-up. “The Silence EP” features re-recordings of four tracks of the previous three albums. The EP is characterised by a sound that goes back to the vibe of the “Treachery” album, drastically scrapping the keyboard arrangements that came to dominate the sound of the previous two albums. Being a free EP, it spreads faster than the Mexican flu ...

For the recording of their fourth album, the line-up of THEUDHO changed drastically. Drummer Joachim agreed to return for the recording of the album as a studio musician. On bass, multi-instrumentalist Nick steps in. Guitarist Dieter, who originally played session for THEUDHO in 2008, joins the recording line-up as well.

OÐIN Á YÐR ALLA!

www.theudho.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Theudho">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.