Thiary is a 5-man melodic death / speed metal band from Vienna, Austria. Created in Gerasdorf, Austria, and eventually settling in Vienna, 3 members of the Friends since childhood are: Thomas Tomitz - drums, Raphael Hoffmann - guitar, Bernard Stepanek - bass. He produced the first riffs and ideas, which will soon be launched using a second guitarist. Michael Koch, a well-known Thomas Tomitz the former football, joined the band. From riffs are more complex musical parts, and jam sessions are from samples. The absence of even a tool belt, however, interfere much, so it is decided that the search for a keyboard player is needed. After days of fruitless searching, the band receives a response to an Internet ad. Gabriel Lentner from neighboring Stammersdorf in Vienna joins the band for playing the keyboards. This is the first "complete" cast as a band, but that does not keep long.

After six months of leaving the band Gabriel Lentner to concentrate more on his own band: Lymphatic Glands. He loses no contact with the band and remains a close friend. At this point, the remaining members believe it is the end of the band is, is it is very difficult to find as a keyboardist in a nearby borough, which also corresponds more to the right age and has similar musical influences. The band carries on and continues to write plays.

One day, standing on the side of a Raphael Hofmann school sports racing car and waited until it was tuned to run. Also there was Martin Metzger, who took part also in the school sports festival, and soon began a conversation with Raphael Hofmann. Martin Metzger showed a very high interest in the band and immediately hit a keyboard player. Soon, however, the differences were with the band and Michael Koch, the second guitarist. He left the band, and it is 4 written köpfig further. After six months applies to Yuri Hofmann Fenopetov Raphael, a new at school, at an event (open house - school). Yuri Fenopetov was playing with another drummer, background music for a show at the event. Through the interest of Raphael Hoffmann, a conversation ensued between the two. Yuri Fenopetov occurs when the band as a guitarist.

The cast is changed and now consists of 5 members: Raphael Hoffmann - Vocals / Guitar, Tomitz Thomas - drums, Yuri Fenopetov - guitar, Bernard Stepanek - bass and Martin Metzger - Keyboard. Influences range from classic hard rock bands like Black Sabbath, Deep Purple, Ozzy Osbourne, to thrash metal giants as Metallica, Megadeth, Testament, to the ever-growing melodic metal scene in Europe (especially Scandinavia), with bands like: Children of Bodom, Norther, Kalmah, Wintersun etc.

The band plays at home until they Hofmann Raphael received many complaints from neighbors and unfortunately continue to have their samples elsewhere. An offer from the former keyboardist Gabriel Lentner is appropriate to divide the sample space in Stammersdorf Lentner with Gabriel and his band (Lymphatic Glands). The band writes song after song and the first appearance follows. Thiary have its first performance on 29 March 2007 in Arena Vienna.

http://www.myspace.com/thiary


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thiary">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.