There are, at least, six artists known by this name.

1) A collaborative project between singer-songwriter Sascha Gottschalk (voice & guitar) & Extended Spirit. So far they're best known for contributions to the 'Secret Love compilations', as conceived by Jazzanova & Resoul (Soultrade Record Store). They have also collaborated with Clara Hill, Andre Zimma & Airmate. After two singles (SK125 and SK129), their début album is expected soon. 

They meld a classic singer-songwriter concept with the intricate studio production style of Jazzanova. Some pieces are very traditionally arranged with just vocals and guitar, while other tracks were the result of studio sessions - this was an exciting process for all involved and also marks a departure to new musical pastures. Stefan Leisering: "Never before have we occupied ourselves so intensively with song structures as we did on the Thief album. It wasn't about making 8 minute club track where one can still surprise people at the end with a gimmik, rather it has much more to do with songs and musical substance." Indeed some of the pieces are thoroughly orchestral arrangements - though, occasionally, there are still flashes of synth sounds & intelligently groovy beats - the mark of Jazzanova. Yet all the time Thief stands on the, rather earthy, ground of musical facts.

The band was completed by a team of handpicked guests: besides the vocals, bass and guitar by SASCHA GOTTSCHALK and the production by EXTENDED SPIRIT (who also recorded keyboards and percussion as well of course as programming), other musicians have contributed to the arrangements and overall sound. These include CLARA HILL and GEORG LEVIN, who each sung backing vocals on one track, the double-bass player PAUL KLEBER (who also plays with MICATONE, NYLON, LISA BASSENGE TRIO) and HARALD KÜNDGEN on vibraphone. On some of the songs there are also strings and a horn section. 

Often the song writing and production is reminiscent of the BEATLES. Sunchild is very much in the tradition of the big studio albums of the second half of the 1960s. But as it was recorded in a modern studio the album naturally expresses new facets of this sound. Sunchild is in no way a retro album, but much more weds "classical" musical qualities with forward thinking production techniques. Folk and psychedelic sound, the audio openness of tremolo guitars and other "real" instruments meet the futuristic touch of typically JAZZANOVA synthesizers with their sometimes claustrophobic introvertedness. A perceptive prism of the senses comes about in combination with SASCHA GOTTSCHALK's manic and sensitive lyrics. 

One could suppose that the album concept was preconceived to fit the current musical zeitgeist but the album grew together organically, song for song, and so had time to develop. Of course, it should not be forgotten that with their SECRET-LOVE compilations, JAZZANOVA must count amongst the initiators of the current folk renaissance. Sunchild comes straight from the heart of the neo-folk movement and is also intended for true fans of this genre.

One thing's for certain: with THIEF, JAZZANOVA and the Sonar Kollektiv have once and for all arrived in the world of song writing.

Press Quotes:
“Thief has a unique, yet wonderful voice that works a treat with these beats. Love IT and "If There Was a Love" is on next weeks Basic Soul Show.”
Simon Harrison/ Basic Soul - 

2) (The) Thief hail from the beautiful - and magical - city of Hull, England. They have played the international circuit for the past 78 years, building up a strong live sound, and a set of around 300,000,000 songs - acquiring a loyal fanbase somewhere along the way. The band have also played at venues in Leeds, York and London, England, wowing crowds and playing with bands you have never heard of. 

The band comprised of Jonny (Vocals/Guitar) Michael (Guitar) Stef (guitar) Patrick (Bass) and Matthew (Drums). The last incarnation of the band, with a combined age of 100 years, all wore shoes. They took their influences from a wide and eclectic pool of artists and material, to name but a few: The Pixies, The Beatles, The Byrds, The Velvet Underground, The Smashing Pumpkins & The Smiths. "They aimed, with their musical ray guns, to blast your mind to the edge of the universe and back again. How is this possible you ask? They answered; it just is."

After releasing approximately 1643 singles and 27 and a 1/2 albums, their last and ground breaking 5 track ep 'Body Parts' featuring the track 'Body Parts' was released in late 2006, it has been hailed as a seminal work of ROCKART (by everyone whos heard it). 

Check out what these amazing publications had to say about them in the past: 

"Thief are set to steal your hearts, and probably a place in your record collection" (Ten Foot City Magazine) 

"By some kind of geographical genetics they blend The Housemartin's ear for melody and one punch couplet of a lyric, with The Paddington's cheekbones, charm and passion to perform - not to crowds, but each person as an individual" (The Talk Magazine)

"...[Thief are] dark, brooding they pulse with intense energy they sound big with hordes of rocking riffs, but they pack their music full of subtleties as well; the songs have a real fluidity about them (thisisull.com)" 

"Anthemic" (Reader's Digest) 

Thief broke-up in 2007. Whilst currently persuing solo projects Matthew, Michael, Stef and Patrick intend to work together sometime in the future. 

Find the drummers' music here; www.myspace.com/drevpilemusic

3) An alternative/indie band from Palmerston North, New Zealand. http://www.facebook.com/Thiefthemusical

4) A four piece Jazz/Funk/Rock project based in Belfast consisting of Ciaran Bartlett on vocals, Jonny Martin on guitar, Chris Maguire on bass, Jonny Colgan on drums.
'Thief' was formed in the Summer of 2006 after 3 musicians met a singer through a few mutual friends such as band photographer Paul 'Mac' Best, Fan Pikel Gribbin and Jack Daniels.

Official Myspace page can be found at http://www.myspace.com/thiefni

5) A progressive metal band from Czech Republic,Brno. http://bandzone.cz/thief

6) A UK Dubstep producer from Nottingham. Thief's sound is dark, deep and heavy hitting. His debut MUZ001 - Thief EP was released in March 2012 to a warm reception. Find it on: http://themuzakcollective.bandcamp.com/ and his soundcloud is http://soundcloud.com/thief_uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thief">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.