Bio

Third Ion is the product of a mutual love of prog, video games, and science. A project talked about, envisioned, and anticipated by Justin and Aaron since they met, in mid-2010. A few of the songs have been in the works since shortly after that, but meeting Mike and getting him on board was the jump start needed to truly get this band off the ground.

With the addition of Tyler Gilbert on lead vocals, Third Ion has completed recording their debut album “13/8Bit”, and with the help of Clawhammer PR have received worldwide airplay with an early released single of the song “Capitol Spill” before their fall 2014 tour.

Recently signed to Glasstone Records, the album is being released May 25, 2015, and Third Ion plans to tour Canada and Europe to promote the record. 8-Bit musical renditions of every song will be released as well, to pay homage to their 1980’s classic gaming inspirations.

Member Background

Justin is a guitar player, producer/engineer and song-writer, most known for playing with and producing the Canadian heavy metal veterans Into Eternity. Over a decade of live playing, live sound and studio experience, and has toured the U.S., Canada, Mexico and southeast Asia. The main focus of his career has been studio production, which he currently putting the bulk of his time and energy into.

Aaron lives drums. He teaches, records, gigs, does clinics, and is a published author (drum related – of course). On top of all that he is the editor in chief of Drums Etc. magazine, and has a weekly broadcast show on Drumeo. His educational material (also drum related, of course) on Youtube has over a million views, and more than 7,300 subscribers to his channel.

Mike has been a professional session bassist for the past 15 years. He is well versed in all styles of music, and has played everything from metal (Devin Townsend Band, Terror Syndrome) to rock (Jet Black Stare, Ten Ways, the Matinee), to funk, pop, country and jazz. He has toured North America and Europe with a variety of projects, and currently resides in Vancouver, where he gigs, plays sessions and occasionally teaches. Mike also loves coffee, cartoons and all things nerdy.

Tyler was the last addition to the project, and is also a full time musician. Like the rest of the band, he has dedicated his entire life to his musical career. He has been involved in writing, playing and singing music since his childhood, he grew up surrounded by musical relatives in Regina, Saskatchewan. His primary training was of the guitar but he also dwells on piano, bass and harmonica, playing a mix of new-folk songs with soulful vocals. Tyler accepts influences of all sorts; his main influence taps are of Zakk Wylde, Bob Dylan, Neil Young and, Michael Jackson. Since 2008 Tyler has recorded and released three solo records, and has received radio airplay all across Canada. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Third+ion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.