This Haven is a band from Örebro, Sweden with influences from different genres from metal such as progressive, hardcore and stoner music.
The band was born in the autumn of 2003 by the old time friends, Patrik Karlsson (Vocals, Guitar), Tobbe Jacobsson (Guitar), Johan Berglund (Bass) and Nicklas Keijser (Drums, Percussion). The ambition with This Haven was (and still is) to create something new and fresh within the metal scene of today. The music that This Haven creates is equally dark, heavy and groovy as it is melodic and melancholic. This gives a very own kind of sound that stands out and leads the way into the future. 

Since 2003 This Haven has been featured in several radio stations and magazines, e.g. one of the most interesting new bands in Metal Hammer, interviewed on the radio show Total Rock by Malcolm Dome. This Haven has played a lot of gigs and some festivals together with bands like Nightingale, Alabama Thunderpussy, The Bereaved and Evergrey among others. If you have seen This Haven live you know that This Haven is an ass-kicking live band that always gives 110% on stage and has a lot of passion for the music.

This Haven started from the beginning to work hard with a lot of rehearsing and writing songs. The release of the first demo “Disexist”, in April 2004, was very well received by magazines, webzines and radio stations all over the world. It was mixed and produced with help by Dan Swanö (Edge of Sanity, Nightingale).

In September 2004 they began to record their second demo “My Year Zero”. Dan Swanö mixed and produced the demo, which included six songs of very high class. The demo was released in January 2005. With this demo the number of fans increased rapidly and people started to know about This Haven. Even this demo was very well received by the critics around the globe.

And in July 2005 This Haven went into their own studio again to create their third demo “A Soul Open Wide”, but this time they decided to record and produce the demo by themselves. It was a 2-track demo and the critics loved it and wanted more from This Haven. 

In 2006 they finally got a record label on the hook. It was Vic Records that finally had got attention for This Haven. After signing the record deal they went into the studio in August 2006 and started to record their debut album “Today a whisper, Tomorrow a storm”. Dan Swanö helped them a lot in the beginning of the recording sessions and he has also mixed and mastered the album. The woman with the lovely voice, on the song "Plague", is Magdalena Eriksson. Robert Johansson has taken all the photos and Matt Wickerstaff (Cathedral, My Dying Bride) designed the cover art for the album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/This+Haven">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.