Thomas Edward Yorke (born 7 October, 1968 in Wellingborough, Northamptonshire, England) is best known as the lead singer of the English alternative rock band Radiohead, but he also has a solo career and is also a frontman of the supergroups Atoms for Peace, and The Smile.

Career:

He mainly plays electric guitar, acoustic guitar and piano, but has also played drums and bass guitar (notably during the Kid A and Amnesiac Radiohead sessions). 

His debut album The Eraser was released on July 10th 2006 in the UK and onJuly 11th in the US. Two singles were released with the album, Harrowdown Hill and Analyse.

The song Black Swan was used as the end theme for the 2006 film adaptation of Philip K. Dick's novel A Scanner Darkly and became a successful hit on American alternative radio in the summer of the same year. Song Analyse was also used at the end credits of the film The Prestige. That year also saw the release of a Japan-only EP Spitting Feathers, which collected together five b-sides from the Analyze and Harrowdown Hill singles.

A collection of remixes from The Eraser from such electronic luminaries as Burial, Four Tet, Modeselektor, Various Production and Surgeon were released as MP3 files initially in 2007, followed by a series of limited 12" in 2008. These were eventually released on CD as The Eraser Rmxs album.

In 2009, Yorke contributed a new song, Hearing Damage, to the soundtrack for The Twilight Saga: New Moon.

Discography:

- The Eraser (2006)
- Tomorrow's Modern Boxes (2014) 
- Suspiria (Soundtrack) (2018)
- ANIMA (2019).

Personal Life:

As a child, Yorke underwent five surgical operations to correct a paralysed left eye he had had since birth. He has claimed that the last surgery was "botched," giving him his characteristic drooping eyelid.

He has one brother, Andy, of the band the Unbelievable Truth. 

Yorke lived in central Oxford with his partner, Rachel Owen, a printmaker who hold a doctorate in art history, and their two children, Noah, born in 2001 (to whom the Radiohead album Amnesiac was dedicated) and Agnes, born 2004 (to whom Yorke dedicated The Eraser).
In August 2015, the couple announced they had separated amicably. Owen died of cancer on 18 December 2016, aged 48. Yorke is in a relationship with Italian actress Dajana Roncione now.

Thom Yorke is also heavily involved with Friends of the Earth and helped launch their Big Ask campaign. He also played a Big Ask benefit gig at the Koko club in London, England. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thom+Yorke">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.