San Francisco-based Dimuzio is one of those unsung artistic figures whose influence and abilities have substantially outstripped his visibility. Composer, multi-instrumentalist, sound designer, experimental electronic musician, collaborator and recording studio owner - Dimuzio has been busy doing his thing(s) since the late 1980's, but is still only known to a small circle of electronic music enthusiasts. A true sonic alchemist who can seemingly create music events out of almost anything, Dimuzio's listed sound sources on his various CDs include everything from "modified 10 speed bicycle" and "resonating water pipe" to short-wave radios, loops, samplers and even normal instruments such as clarinet and trumpet. And while his wide range of musical interests make it impossible to pin a label on him, Dimuzio clearly has an insider's knowledge of older experimental musical forms such as musique concrete and electroacoustic, as well as more current ambient-industrial, noise and post-techno styles.

Since relocating from Boston to San Francisco in 1996, Dimuzio has become a fixture in the San Francisco Noise scene, performing regularly with an ever-evolving array of live electronics. Morphing the tools of the studio into a live musical instrument, Dimuzio's improvised performances unleash a raw sonic power into a real-time compositional domain typically associated with multi-tracked studio production. His releases, Markoff Process, Quake, Preacher In Naked Chase Guilty, and Hz document a wide variety of his solo and collaborative performances.

As a collaborator, he has contributed to numerous artists and ensembles, such as 5uu's, Chris Cutler, C.W. Vrtacek, Tom Cora, Fred Frith, Dan Burke, Due Process and Paul Haslinger, and has toured North America and Europe as a solo act. His solo CD releases include 1997's double CD Sonicism,the recently remastered and reissued HEADLOCK, early cassette works compiled on Louden, and Markoff Process, from 1994.

In his work as sound designer, Dimuzio has worked with a number of synthesizer manufacturers such as Kurzweil, Lexicon and OSC to create custom presets, and he has collaborated with Fred Frith, Tom Cora and the Rova Saxophone Quartet to create sound libraries for Rarefaction.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thomas+Dimuzio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.