Thorny Woods is the wakening of a necessity to complain about the dogmas and values surrounding us. Gaunt Beast and Males Maleficarum had idealized the project in 1999 of this wretched calendar as a form to fight against this hypocritical age in which we are submitted.

Gaunt Beast has never been involved with any another project. Maleficarum is also charter member of Urbem Lord as well as co-founder of Altú Pagánách.

Just before the beginning of the recordings of "Amongstrees...", with the aid of Domminus in the batteries and basses, as well as the keyboards, Maleficarum decides to not participate for reasons that only concerns to him. Though, Gaunt Beast and Domminus recorded four compositions (two of Domminus and two, creations of Gaunt Beast).Domminus is also member of Mircalla and Alethes Basileus.

In 2003, "Amongstrees..." is released and very well accepted by the underground public. Domminus becomes permanent member of Thorny Woods. Later, in 2004, Azagthoth was sufficiently interested and decided to give one ampler spreading in the work. Together with Sephiroth Distro, "Amongstrees..." was re-released with new artwork. Then Dungortheb (a.k.a. Males Maleficarum) and Agamemnom join their intentions, assuming the basses and the guitars, respectively, to compose more elaborated and more mature music content.
Agamemnom used to act with Mircalla and Alethes Basileus.

One more time, for particular reasons, this last one leaves Thorny Woods and is replaced by Baco that assumes the guitars.

In 2005 rises the will to create something more imposing. With new compositions the group enters studio to record the debut "Dendro Dreams", one robust and professional album. Dungortheb decides to leave Thorny Woods sending-off the incumbency of the basses also for Baco. Currently Thorny Woods is steady formed by Gaunt Beast, Domminus and Baco.

Still keeping its proposal radical and pessimistic about in the ways of life of the human being, Thorny Woods treads the way of the fight for the space in the common mind, corroding the fetters of the hypocrisy... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thorny+Woods">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.