Forged in the Midwest (NW Indiana) and the Chicagoland area Thorn Fetish is out to bring back the spectacle of a real Rock N' Roll show that has seemed to be lost in better days. Meshing many influences ranging from 70s Classic Rock to today's Black Metal, has brought a one-of-a-kind style that is tough enough for the guys to fight and drink with, while keeping the hooks that will make the ladies shake their asses!

This 4-Piece band joined together with an exact image of what they all wanted from the musical arena. With each member bringing in experience the band quickly gelled in October of 2006. While working vigorously to get to the stage ASAP, the band entered into a Battle of the Bands that held 3 qualifying venues and 10 bands each night with the top 4 moving on, the Thorn Fetish crew placed 2nd. As unexpected as the outcome was unexpected and just added fuel to the fire. The finals held just a few weeks later, treated the band to another 2nd place finish by 1 point!

Since then the band has played numerous shows with excellent response in the NW Indiana scene. The band set a new attendance record for McCool's bar under the new ownership and outsold southern-rock act Molly Hatchet with their SINNERS SIDESHOW. The event drew over 250 people and contained with eye-candy from Dreamgirls/Deja Vu, a little S&M with Mistress Aria and her subjects, and the evil magic of Ron Fitzgerald!

The band continues to work dilligently and has some major events in the works!! Thorn Fetish promises this to anyone and everyone who comes into contact with the band, "We're here to come into any venue and rip, make some new friends, give the audience a REAL rockshow, leave you wanting more, and not feeling screwed by paying hard-earned money to see a half-assed act! Coming to our shows gives you the special essence of rock n' roll emotion. Feeling good, having fun while leaving the shit behind, and cut-loose for a night!", that is their guarantee. Since the departure of co-founding guitarist Von Angst, Thorn Fetish has found a new guitar fury in the monster called Kaige. Continuing the onslaught of metal, Thorn Fetish continues to gain new fans at each show at a feverish pace! Afterall....they wouldnt be the House Band For the Devil's Stripclub if they sucked....ENOUGH SAID!

Grey, Pumpkin, Kaige, and Doc
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thorn+Fetish">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.