Thornspawn was forged and born of fire in the year 1995 by Swornghoul (Chainsaw) and Blackthorn (Coffins/Whips). Shortly after this Unholy Union Lord Necron (Demonaxe) & Ashtaroth (Growls) joined the Hellranks of Thornspawn. 1996 witnessed the first sonic torment "The Dacian Empire" demo(n) to only 50 copies to the local supporters (which were not many). Ashtaroth soon after this release leaves Thornspawn.

"Consecration of Evil Flesh" demo unleashed in 1997 gained world recognition and support by the Black Metal Movement only to be released to 200 copies! Bassists Gothmog and Obliterator (Gnostic) both are dismissed for Recording and Live purpose for lack of Dedication and Vision. Blackthorn raises the banners of Hell and assumes command of Bestial Invocations and Drums.

In 1999 Profanation Rex which was assembled by Krieg frontman Lord Imperial would be the first Label that would stand by Thornspawn with the release of their first 7" "Infernal Legions" to 666 copies on Mother Bitch Mary Menstrual Red Vinyl!!! This release was completely Sold out in a matter of weeks and now is a release sought out by many Die Hard Vinyl collectors and Soldiers to the Infernal Cause....at this point Bolverk (Necrovore fame) assists the Thornspawn Regiment on Bass duties.

Killjoy of the infamous Necrophagia approached Thornspawn in the year 1999 with a 3 Cd offer and assisted in the Production of their first full length "Blood of the Holy, Taint Thy Steel..." under his new label Baphomet Rex. Joining forces with Necropolis Rex. and Death to Mankind Rex. (Spain) "Blood of the Holy...." was spread throughout the Black/Death Underworld (LP/CD). Thornspawns following assault would be "Empress from the Realms of Blasphemy" Mcd in the year (2000) released to only 1000 copies with bonus material from the 7" sessions. This Mcd would also be the final union between Baphomet Rex. and Thornspawn.....Bolverk falls in battle.

Hellflame Rex (Italy) re-releases "Consecration of Evil Flesh" (2001) with Pro-Cover to 500 copies. Thornspawns live attack is captured at the "Sacrifice of the Nazarene Child-Black Metal Fest" in 2001. This Live assault results in a split LP (2002) with Greek Wargodz UNHOLY ARCHANGEL also through HellFlame rex. to 666 copies. HellBeast joins the battle with Thornspawn for this live assault as Session Bass....... In this same year In Coffin Rec. (Singapore) releases "Blood of the Holy, Taint Thy Steel..." on Pro-tape to 333 copies.

2001 Osmose Prod (France) offers Thornspawn 2 Cd deal and enter Isotopia Studios to forge "Wrath of War" (2002) a tribute to the ancient days of Satanic Death! Before the 2nd release could be fulfilled Osmose unprofessional attitude and lack of support results in Thornspawn firing Osmose...the battle continues to this day!

2003 would witness the Antichristian Uprising with the release by Agonia Rec. (Poland) of Thornspawns Ancient Crusades "The Dacian Empire" & "Consecration of Evil Flesh" with new art and layout on LP Gatefold w/poster limited to 666 copies. All art and layout forged by the ineffable Hellartist Ereshkigal (WWW.Ereshkigal.cjb.net) this release would be titled "First Possession-Infernal Allegiance" as a Black Mark of Satanic Glory!

2004 Necroinferno ex-member of WarKult (Gnostic) assists Thornspawn in Live Assault in Monterrey, Mexico .After months of Trial by Fire assisting Thornspawn Necroninferno becomes Bassist for Thornspawn. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thornspawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.