Thorns of Sin is the musical interpretation of an endeavour both inspiring and long sought for. The music, once entirely derived from experiences of forgotten hopes and ruined dreams, was transformed to a darker, blacker version of one’s perception of life and values. Now as a genre blending warrior amongst a kingdom of metal advocates, Thorns of Sin stands with a sound like no other: a harsh yet imperial combination of modern heavy metal, classic thrash and black metal.

Thorns of Sin began in 2005 in Los Angeles, California, as the embodiment of an impatient goal: the ominous creation of such melodies and riffs born from the mind of vocalist/lead guitarist Sergio Varela. Varela, born in Bogota, Colombia, began playing guitar in 1993 and it was shortly after this time that he started mentally composing the music you now recognize as Thorns of Sin. After years of concentration & devotion and with a combining of the efforts of Varela and collaborative session musicians, Thorns of Sin has now become anything but a musical act to be ignored. Both the process and product are major events in themselves.

As he writes the music for song “End of Your Days,” Sergio Varela offers an intimate revealing of the music’s birth: “The music and lyrics come from two completely separate places. The music; it just comes to me, whether I am wandering the streets of L.A. or relaxing in the studio with a guitar in my hands. My lyrics come from things I want others to feel, understand, fear - sometimes good, sometimes bad. It all depends on what I want to give off at the moment where I am writing lyrics for a particular song.”

Whether the influence of such a sound comes from the musical subconscious of Varela or some other creative genius, you decide. But something we can all agree on is that Thorns of Sin is well worth every pencil-stroked note, be it inspired by whatever it may. 


-Biography credit: Jes Dunn <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thorns+of+Sin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.