Thraciar is a metal band from Helsinki, Finland.

Thraciar was originally formed under the name Live Wire in April 2005 by founding members Anne Rantanen (drums) and Piritta Rantanen (guitar). The cousins played 80's covers (Kiss, Motley Crue, Warlock) for a while until Piritta had done some own material with a lot heavier sound that didn't go with the cover songs.

After some time the band had grown with a bass player (who left to Germany to study later in the fall) and Tiina Honkanen (guitar and vocals) in the summer 2005. Tiina's influence on the band was huge, guitars were tuned lower and the own material was processed into something the three women had never heard nor played before. Also the first singer ( joined the band in fall 2005) with his black metal background, forced the band to seek even more brutal depths into its songwriting.

The songs were made with a fast tempo and they were judged as fast to be non-surviving, so a lot of material were thrown away in the process. The first setlist- survivals were 'scars' and 'unwanted' -with their speed and brutality and yet catching riffs give a good sense of the bands thrash-/death/black-metal style today. Problems with the former singer forced Thraciar to make some rather dramatical decisions about the future.

After the line- up changes during the fall and winter, the band had their first gig 8.2.2006 in Factory, Helsinki with only 3 members in the band. The crowd was welcoming the new band with applauses and shouts. The gig went well considering that there were no vocals or bass. Tiina' s ability to make a low, non- feminine growl was discovered, and she was decided to be a vocalist, alongside with a male they wanted into the group. Soon after the Factory gig Thraciar had Kristian Gustafsson as their new singer and bass player.

In June 2007 T. Honkanen decides to leave the band due to personal reasons. Thraciar seeks for new guitarist and female singer. The new guitarist Mikko Poutala, who completes the sound of Thraciar, is found soon. The band starts to practice with fury. P. Rantanen begins to practise low growling. At the end of 2007 the ways with M. Poutala apart. Thraciar wishes him the best in future. Again band seeks new guitarist and founds Tarmo whose aggressive playing is just what band is looking for. Same time, in February 2008, new singer Essi joins Thraciar. Showing lack of interest and team spirit towards the band, K. Gustafsson is separated. The search of bassist has begun.

Thraciar starts the metamorphosis...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thraciar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.