Threat Level first began its journey in 2005 in Kokomo, Indiana. Members include Frank Rapacki (vocals), Troy Welch (guitar)), Jason Weaver (bass), Chad Smith (drums). They have been steadily working their way up the charts and the fans are loving it! 

Threat Level’s first release in 2006 was a 5 song demo that they recorded on their own. In March 2008, a 10 song debut CD was released with the title “A World Beyond Devastation“. The songs were released on Internet radio, compilation CD’s, podcast’s and trade magazines. 

In 2009, Threat Level signed with DBM Records as a development artist. Now in 2010 they have released their new CD, “Leading The Vicious”. Their new lead single, “Leading The Vicious” is off of the new CD with the same title. This song is to rev up the engines of their fans to get them ready for a ride of a lifetime. This song is a high octane, in your face, high energy extravaganza! It’s heavy metal with an attitude – if that’s possible. The dramatic use of powerful chorus’s along with thick bass lines and undeniable powerhouse vocals brings this group to the forefront of heavy metal madness. This entire CD is full of songs that excite and delight while the fans beg for more. When you bring individuals with such talent together, the end result is pure gold. THIS is Threat Level. 
This new CD was released on March 6, 2010 right in their home state of Indiana. It is available on iTunes, CDBaby, Amazonmp3, Rhapsody, Shockhound, Amies Street, Limewire Store, Napster, Lala, eMusic, Nokia, and many others. It is also available in its physical form. 

Threat Level has played with national artist’s such as DevilDriver, Hellyeah, Otep, Suicide Silence, Bury Your Dead, Kittie, Bloodsimple, Divine Heresy and many others. They have also opened for Jackyl in front of a maximum crowd of 1500 people. Their song, “The Fire Within” was featured in Rock Scarz Magazine’s compilation CD. “Stand Your Ground” was also featured in Metal Maniacs Magazine’s compilation CD. At this time, Lane Productions is booking shows around the Midwest for Threat Level. 

Keep an eye out for these guys. What a way to start the summer! Threat Level is currently working with A & R Select in West Hollywood, Ca. for publishing, licensing and/or placement opportunities.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Threat+Level">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.