There are five bands named Throne. 

1.) Throne is a symphonic black/death metal band from Memphis, Tennessee.

2.) Throne is a three piece doom/stoner metal band from East London. They make slow, riff-laden facemelters.

3.) Throne is  a Finnish one man project.
Simo Ruotsalainen - All instruments (Moukka, Raped gargoyle, NOMA)
http://www.mikseri.net/artists/throne.125968.php

4.) Throne is a blackened death metal band from Jackson, Michigan.

5.) tHrOne has three members that comprise tHrOnE. One of the most unique aspects of the band, besides their music, is that they are all related to each other. The band includes singer/songwriter and bassist Derek Trafton, his brother, drummer Casey Trafton and their cousin, guitarist/keyboards Justin Millar. tHrOnE was formed in 1995 and originally hails from Connecticut.

tHrOnE has released five CDs since 1998. Their first album, entitled "Euphoria," was released in October of 1998, included twelve songs, and was produced by them. The second CD is a four song EP that was recorded in April 1999. This CD was also produced the band. By April 2000 the EP found it's way into the hands of a CT rock radio station. After the station's music director and DJs gave it a listen, they knew they had something in this band that needed to be shown to the entire state. Even though they weren't a national act, the station put them on the air continuously. tHrOnE received an unbelievable response from listeners and the station took note of it. Later that month tHrOnE was placed into the stations daily show called "The Cage Match" which pitted new songs against each other and listeners call in to vote on which of the two they liked the best. tHrOnE was put into "The Cage Match" and won for a week straight by beating many national acts including The Stone Temple Pilots and were finally dethroned by A Perfect Circle. Their third recording, "Overthrown," was released June 20, 2000, included six energy driven songs, and was produced by tHrOnE. With this third CD, they wanted to give the fans and radio stations something that would represent them like no other CD of theirs ever had. And they did just that, because in September of 2000 tHrOnE returned to "The Cage Match" with the title track from their third CD "Overthrown". They battled against new releases from Bloodhound Gang, The Offspring, and Godsmack, defeating them all. In June 2001 tHrOnE released a three song EP entitled "New Army" which includes "New Army", "Meringue", and "So Jealous". Then in September 2002 ,WBCN 104.1 in Boston, MA added "Meringue" into their regular rotation. In November 2002, "Meringue" became the #5 most requested song on WBCN 104.1 in Boston, MA. tHrOnE co-produced this CD with Boston based producer Zoux. The third track, "So Jealous", was added into full rotation at New Rock Radio 104.1 in Hartford, CT. With this CD tHrOnE's music received spins on WAAF 107.3 in Boston, MA, WBCN 104.1 in Boston, MA , WGIR Rock 101.13 in Manchester, NH. February 2004 marked the released of tHrOnE's much anticipated full length album "Balladry", which was co-produced by tHrOnE and Billy Martin of Good Charlotte. One of the songs featured on "Balladry" entitled "Brave", which features Billy Martin on guitar along side the rest of the band, was also added to the WBCN 104.1 complication CD which also features The Used, Switchfoot, Gavin Rosedale, and many more. "Balladry" is in stores now!

Radio isn't the only place where tHrOnE's music has turned heads. In 2001 they were voted "Best New Band" by the Hartford Advocate readers and also were featured as the cover of that issue. July 6, 2001 they were featured on FOX 61 News on WTIC-TV in Hartford, CT on the "In The Fox Light" segment. September 3, 2001 they performed to over 15,000 people at the New Rock Radio 104 Fest with Blink 182, New Found Glory, and Sum 41 at the Meadows Music Theater in Hartford, CT. December 21, 2001 they performed on a sold out concert in Hartford, CT with their friends Good Charlotte, Midtown, and Mest. On Friday, January 4, 2002 they were on the nationally broadcast show on ESPN called X2Day for the Winter X-Games. March 29, 2002 tHrOnE SOLD OUT (1200 heads through the door) their first headlining show at the Webster Theatre in Hartford, CT. Then on May 27, 2002 they performed to a SOLD OUT crowd of over 27,000 people at the New Rock Radio 104 Fest (their third 104 Fest in a row) with Green Day, Blink 182, Good Charlotte, Unwritten Law and Saves The Day. tHrOnE was then voted "Best Original Rock Band" of 2002 in the Hartford Advocate Grand Band Slam which is voted by readers and fans. On July 30, 2002, FOX 61 WTIC-TV did a follow-up story on tHrOnE and featured them during their Entertainment News segment. On December 7, 2002 they performed to a SOLD OUT crowd of 1200 at the Webster Theatre in Hartford, CT with Sparta and RA. On December 11, 2002 tHrOnE was apart of the WBCN X-Mas Rave with New Found Glory and Boxcar Racer and performed to yet another SOLD OUT crowd, this time to over 2000 people. The worlds premiere winter action sports event, the ESPN Winter X Games, returned to Aspen, Colorado in 2003 after a successful first year at the resort. Winter X Games VII took place January 30 - February 2 and was held on Aspen’s Buttermilk Mountain. The 2003 Winter X-Games featured the music of "rising musical act" tHrOnE. Winter X-Games VI in Aspen drew a crowd of close to 40,000 spectators over the four-day event - the biggest winter sporting event Aspen has ever hosted. Winter X Games VII was televised January 30 - February 5 on ESPN, ESPN2 and ABC Sports with more than 17 hours of original programming. The Games were telecast in 10 languages to more than 145 countries and territories, reaching more than 110 million homes around the world. This is the second year in a row that tHrOnE's music was featured on the winter X-Games. In February 2003 Good Charlotte was interviewed by MTV.com and talked about wanting to work with tHrOnE and that "when you find a band you really like and they're not signed, you think, 'I might actually be able to help them out,' [and] it's cool we can do that," Billy Martin stated in reference to tHrOnE. On July 24, 2003 tHrOnE recieved "The Reader's Choice Award" in the Hartford Advocate Grand Band Slam. July 2004 marked tHrOnE's forth consecutive year in a row of winning in the Grand Band Slam. This time they won two categories: "Best Original Rock" and "Best Male Vocal."

In February 2004, tHrOnE once again headlined and SOLD OUT (1300 tickets sold before doors even opened) the Webster Theatre for their CD release of "Balladry." In the Spring of 2004, they went out on their first full U.S. tour. During their Spring tour they opened for N.E.R.D. and Fountains of Wayne at the Bender Arena in Washington, D.C. Since then they have toured the U.S. three other times and will once again be hitting the road in Fall 2005.

Justin (guitarist) is now sponsored by Hamer Guitars and Ovation Guitars. Derek (vocals/bassist) is sponsored by Ovation Guitars. In February 2003, Casey (drums) received sponsorships from Sabian Cymbals, Vic Firth Drum Sticks, and Gretsch Drums.

And most recently, tHrOnE spent most of 2006 writing and recording in the studio with Billy Martin who co-produced a few songs along side Frank "the Punisher" Marchand, who engineered and mixed the entire album.

tHrOnE's live performance (sound) parallels the production quality of their CDs. Their shows are both an explosion of energy and of pure love for making great music. You will not forget your first tHrOnE experience. "This is nothing more than a wake-up call." 

Throne is also a pre-Throneum black/death metal band.

Throne from the Netherlands-The band consisted of Bob Bagchus (Asphyx, Evoker, Soulburn) on Drums and some members of "Beyond Belief".  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Throne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.