What the fuck do you know about the Middle East? I bet you think that its full of scary looking dudes with long-beards that wanna fuck everybody up. Yeah those freaks exist, but there is another threat to global security that you best watch out for! Through Sunken Eyes is a noisy-ass thrash hardcore crossover band from Bahrain that are gonna bring Middle Eastern style chaos to your pretty little suburban home and probably blow it up in the process. Through Sunken Eyes plays extreme music and tells you the brutal truth about life in this part of the world. Posers beware! This shit is not for MTV addicted teenybopper pussies. This is hardcore, in your face, raw, hell-paced noise that will make you run for cover. So if youre scared, go ahead and listen to the Backstreet Boys you wimp.

Through Sunken Eyes began their reign of terror in late 2006 when a Bahraini guy called Hostile H decided to put together a band. Unfortunately, the poor dude couldn’t find any musicians with enough balls at the time in Bahrain. How sad. But I’ll tell you what, it aint easy to find serious musicians in a country where metal fans are labeled as Satanists and are vilified by long-bearded religious morons. So, instead of giving up and feeling sorry for himself, Hostile H went ahead and recorded a bunch of original songs playing all instruments himself. The result was an eleven-track, 23 minute mini-album entitled "Fried Brains and Pearl Champagne." The CD received a lot of attention in the local scene and got great reviews in www.phride.com, the largest online resource for metal music in the middle east. 

Hostile H has since managed to put together a band of bad-ass musicians and Through Sunken Eyes are gonna spread their message and take their brand of noise on the road. The band plans to play shows all over the region and eventually any country with enough balls to let them in. Watch out! One day they might invade your city! 

The "Fried Brains..." CD is on sale for only five bucks on cdbaby.com and Amazon.com, the links are in the blog or you can press the button underneath to buy from CDbaby. Pick up a copy and bang your head to some Extreme Desert Noise! 

"Quite possibly the only crossover thrash band from this region. Through Sunken Eyes delivers raw, aggressive thrash-meets-hardcore-punk music with some of the most outrageous lyrics you'll ever hear from the Middle East!" -WWW.PHRIDE.COM 

"Fried Brains and Pearl Champagne is the most brutally honest album released in the Gulf Region" -TRENDCRUSHER ZINE- UAE <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Through+Sunken+Eyes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.