Throes of Ire was initiated in 2009 by Jason McMurtrey as a project deeply rooted in Celtic folklore and horrific legends that encompasses many different elements of Doom metal. By early 2013 James Foster Jr. was recruited to add vocals to the dark tales and forbidden lore. Jame’s hardcore influence and vocal style melded into the many faces of Jason’s Death/Doom, Funeral Doom, and Traditional Doom charge. Considering themselves a “Horror Doom” band they created a unique band that has something for everyone into any kind of Doom metal or just heavy music in general. On Halloween 2013, they released their first full length album “Aberration of Fate” to wide praise and was considered “a real murky and sinister affair that played out like some suggestive horror movie never quite willing to reveal its true terror, but remaining so frightful in its hints” according to Neil Arnold from Metal Forces Magazine in the UK. The album went onto spawn interest in the at the time upcoming Lake of Tears tribute album Twenty Years in Tears – Second tribute to “Lake of Tears“ where they did a cover of the song “Headstones“. Shortly thereafter they began work on an ambitious EP titled “Funeral for a Witch” which encompassed the story of Margaret Aitken, the great witch of Balwearie. After having plead guilty under torture, she offered to help a commission of witch hunters to point out witches in all parts of the country in exchange for her life. During a period of four months, The Aitken commission visited several parts of Scotland and a large number of people were arrested, put on trial and burned on the stake after having been pointed out by her. Eventually Aitken is driven mad by the guilt and haunting glares she cannot ream from her mind of the innocent girls killed by her hand. Eventually she is proven to be a fraud and is burned at the stake herself. (This was their interpretation of the Story) which was widely praised with some excellent reviews and worldwide recognition. In April of 2014 Throes of Ire began working on it’s next full length album who’s sessions also inspired an EP “The Mourners Cairn” to be released before the release of the next full length album in 2015. Stay tuned as the story continues….. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Throes+of+Ire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.