There are two artists with the name Throat Culture:
  
1) Throat Culture is a Columbus,Ohio based A Capella ensemble of four and sometimes five who perform an eclectic mix of originals and covers. The "mouth band" began performing in the fall of 1990 on a Short North street corner, and has with the release of its CDs, "A Capella Head"  and "Up with Angst!" generated a loyal cult following throughout central Ohio and beyond. Throat Culture has performed in a wide variety of venues including live nationally syndicated public radio (Garrison Keillor's "A Prairie Home Companion" and "Whad'ya Know?" with Michael Feldman), local radio (WSNY, WCBE) and TV, clubs, corporate events, museums, art galleries, and countless civic festivals. Throat Culture has opened for such national acts as Dionne Warwick, The Righteous Brothers, The Beach Boys and Moxy Fruvous in Columbus and throughout the country, and has hosted and performed with the BOBs and has collaborated with and recorded the sound track of The Postman Delivers for performance artist Robert Post. Throat Culture's recordings have been included in a variety of national and regional compilations, including the “Best of Keepers” for Minnesota Public Radio .
   Throat Culture's material is an exercise in diversity and the unexpected, taking the tradition and culture of popular music and turning it on its ear: "Sixteen Tons" as Tango, AC/DC as doo-wop, homages to Jimi Hendrix, Tommy James and James Brown. Throat Culture's originals spring from mundane delights like toast for breakfast and are peopled with edgy characters who often just don't fit in. Its songs are sometimes uplifting, celebratory, by turns humorous and poignant. Surprising arrangements, liberal doses of vocalese and body percussion; engaging and delightful.

2) A punk/post-hardcore band from Albany, New York.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Throat+Culture">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.