There are many bands under the name Thunderstorm:

1) Thunderstorm: is a Dutch disco funk band from the eighties.
Members: Alfred Ommen, Benito Darthuizen, Billy Jones, Edgar Darnoud, Ernie Anches, Eugene Bona, Glenn Gaddum, Herman Ristie, Imro Wielkens, Stan Lokhin. Their self-titled album Thunderstorm released at 1981 on Dureco Benelux.

2) Thunderstorm: is an Italian Doom Metal band founded in 1992.

3) Thunderstorm: is a German Traditional Metal band founded in 1988.

4) Thunderstorm: is a Russian Black Metal band founded in 1998.

5) Thunderstorm: is a Romanian Power Metal band founded in 1997. In 1998, when the boys first entered the studio to record the „Tales From a Dying World“ demo, the 16-year-old guys didn’t have a clue that the next ten years would be like a roller coaster ride. Like any aspiring band, in a totally unfriendly musical context, Thunderstorm has sought for a few years the right members and stylistic direction, and finally consolidating its strong inner core:exceptional vocalist Vlad Necula, bassist Alex Pascu and virtuoso lead guitarist Andrei Gingirof. Not waiting for any support from the local metal labels, the band releases the same year the self-produced LP called „Beyond the Dawn“, which sold out almost instantly, the CD’s from the first edition are now almost of collectible value. Following the release and especially the live appearances around the country, with some air- play and even TV appearances, the band was regarded as one of the country’s best heavy metal groups. Of course, this „label“ compelled the band to raise the standards of their music even more. In 2003, the band releases its first song with lyrics in their native tongue „Ultimul Drum“ (The Last Road), the song becoming an instant hit and attracting lots of new fans. It was a new beginning for the band and, in 2005, with a new powerful line- up with a great chemistry, Thunderstorm enters the infamous Sfera Studios in Bucharest, alongside producer Costin Dumitrache, to record „Vise Digitale“, their first LP with lyrics in Romanian. It was also their first official release, under the label Metalfan Records Divisioon. The LP was released at the Lot of Rage concert, at Bucharest’s infamous Roman Arenas, along- side legendary bands Rage and Lake of Tears. The album got great reviews around the country, but, surprisingly, even better reviews from abroad – the webzines and magazines being absolutely thrilled by the product and especially by the „guts“ to play heavy metal in another language than English. 2007 was also Thunderstorm’s first live appearance abroad, at the Music Arts Festival in Bulgaria. Currently, the band is working on new songs for a new record, that the band will release at the end of this year. In July the band will be opening for Primal Fear and Judas Priest in Bucharest. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thunderstorm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.