THY INFERNAL formed during the winter of 1996 in Portland, OR. The band's original lineup was Slut - guitar, Rapist - guitar, Armageddon - bass/backing vocals, Nihilist - vocals, Baphojay - drums. Shortly thereafter they started their live terror; perfecting their show with blood spitting, spikes, boar heads, smoke, animal guts, six foot inverted crosses and more head banging than has been seen in America since the 1980's. Playing with such notorious bands as Mayhem, Cannibal Corpse, Incantation, Angel Corpse, Krisiun, Hammerfall, Morbid Angel etc, THY INFERNAL quickly earned a reputation as the most extreme live band in America. A new drummer, Impaler, was acquired and they entered the studio for the firstst time; recording a cover of "Die When You Die" for the GG Allin tribute CD, "Straight from Hell." Their only demo, "Satan's Wrath," was released in 1997; limited to 200 exclusive copies which quickly sold-out and received rave reviews from the Metal underground press.

THY INFERNAL then produced the Metal anthem, "The Hordes of Satan" for Full Moon Productions' "A Tribute to Hell" double compilation CD. Soon after, the band felt they would be stronger as a four piece and Nihilist was axed; with Armageddon taking over all vocal duties. Many labels were competing for THY INFERNAL, and in 1998 they signed to Moribund Records. Winter 1998 saw THY INFERNAL in the studio again, to record new songs for the "Satan's Wrath" mini-CD' which would also include their legendary sold-out demo as a bonus. During this session, they also recorded a cover of "Black Magic" for the second edition of the popular Slayer tribute CD series by Dwell Records. Released in 1999, the "Satan's Wrath" CD proved to be the most uncompromising Black Metal album ever recorded on American soil. Met with critical acclaim by press and fans alike, THY INFERNAL proved to the international Metal world that the US could still produce world class bands. Countless live shows ensued, with THY INFERNAL securing their status as the most over the top live Metal band in America.

Once their live war-support was completed intensive rehearsals began, and by winter 1999 THY INFERNAL were ready to record their sophomore effort. After several weeks in the studio, they emerged with "Warlords of Hell" - a diabolical masterpiece destined for greatness. The US Gods highly anticipated second album melds multi-layered melodic guitar virtuosity with precision blasts and utter Black Metal grimness, plunging all listeners into an inescapable Metal holocaust. THY INFERNAL have created a new landmark in US Metal history, comparable in impact to Slayer's "Reign in Blood," Morbid Angel's "Blessed are the Sick" and Dissection's "Storm of the Light's Bane." From viciously brutal onslaughts to fast intricate pieces and unforgettable Metal anthems, "Warlords of Hell" delivers; setting a new standard for Black / Death Metal to be measured by. Released May 22nd in Europe and June 26th for the rest of the world, "Warlords of Hell" features stunning gatefold cover artwork by Joe Petagno (Motörhead, Krisiun) and is available on CD and limited edition Gatefold LP; as well as a limited cassette version for South America. After finishing the new album, Impalor was discharged and original drummer Baphojay was recruited again. THY INFERNAL also signed a new multi-album contract with Moribund Records, with exclusive license/distribution in Europe through Napalm Records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thy+Infernal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.