THY DARKENED SHADE BIOGRAPHY
The ancient flame known as Thy Darkened Shade was summoned nameless in 1999 by Semjaza. The music composed in the early formation was Black Metal with Old School and Epic influences. In order for Thy Darkened Shade to achieve the astral link between the Higher Self and the ways that the black flame can be channeled through spiritual music nothing was unleashed. 

Over the years, the sonic rituals of Thy Darkened Shade changed significantly resulting in Eternvs Mos, Nex Ritvs. The first grimoire was released via the brotherhood of World Terror Committee, signifying the quest for inner excellence that operates as perpetual curse to the cosmic scenario and the demiurge. The excellence will be achieved by the destruction of the karmic laws and the final resurrection in acausal forms.

In 2014 Thy Darkened Shade released the second grimoire entitled Liber Lvcifer I: Khem Sedjet once again under the banner of World Terror Committee. A glorification of Father Lvcifer in all His manifestations, a step closer to spiritual chaos and the liberation of the black flame into the waters of Nun. A reverence towards the 11 headed dragon, erasing the cosmic nothingness once and for all, deifying the most Holy Death.

In 2015 some arcane spiritual pacts will be further unleashed upon the filthy Malkuth and few selected live rituals will mark a new awakening.

After several line-up changes the live ritual members of the cult are:
The A - Mantras
Semjaza - Guitars, Mantras
Cain Letifer - Guitars, Mantras
King Asmoday - Bass
C.Docre -Drums

Recording line up: 
The A - Mantras, Semjaza - Bass, Guitars, Mantras, 
HG & C.Docre -Session Drums, Choir of the Damned

The Nexions are wide open for Chaos to flow.

Interested cults can contact Thy Darkened Shade via Facebook:
https://www.facebook.com/pages/Thy-Darkened-Shade/391172430930927?fref=ts

And Gmail:
thydarkenedshade@gmail.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thy+Darkened+Shade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.