Thyruz was formed back in the late summer of 1999, and the members are from Eidsvoll and Drøbak in Norway. Already next year, they did their first demo called “Fairytales in flames”. Recorded at Norges lydskole. They also did their first gigs this year. In May 2001 they recorded “Ride This Beast of Nightmare” in V8 studio. This become their second demo release. Thyruz played at Gamla in Oslo, in a vorspiel to Infernofestival in April 2003. They also made their third demo this year, “Develish devine” for the first time at Myrk studio.

2004 was a productive year, they did their first music video “Gormandized salvation” and later on their fourth demo, “Crucifixion failure” at Myrk studio. In 2005 “Martyrenes rike” become their second music-video and also self produced like the first one. In December, Thyruz released their fifth demo “Blasphemy” at Myrk studio where they record and produce everything on their own. .. 

In 2006 they made a lot of new material, and went to studio to record their first album who was finished in November. Also this at Myrk and V8 studio. 

2007 was a good year, in January Thyruz signed a record deal with Twilight-Vertrieb in Germany. And they released their first album “Northern blasphemy” the same year, who also contains a remastered and mixed version of the video “Martyrenes rike”. .. They did a festival gig in August,at Barther Metal Open Air in Germany. 

In 2008 Thyruz did a couple of gigs in Germany. One in Jena at Rosenkeller, and a festival gig at Interregnum-fest in Kranichshof. And they where working at the new album, and the coverdesign.

”Ominous vocation” Their third music-video was produced in January 2009, and released in December. They also recorded their second album ”Diseblot” at Myrk studio. It was finished in Oktober, and will be released next year.

In January 2010 they did some gigs in Bangkok, and at the international tattoo convention in Thailand O.A. And their new album ”Diseblot” was released in Europe on July/August 2010, by Twillight-Vertrieb Germany. 

Thyruz have a lot of experience in playing live. And they have played with several bands like: Mayhem, 1349, Graveworm, Eluveitie, God Dethroned, Tyr, Pantheon-I and Besatt. 

In the history of Thyruz they have had a few changes, but todays line-up is as following:  Hedin Varf - Vocals.  Gorm - Guitar.  Ravnsvartr - Guitar.  Mjølner - Drums.  Ymer - Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Thyruz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.