Tiara Thomas, born in Indianapolis, Indiana, is a singer and self-taught guitar player. Her musical skills were encouraged by both parents early in life and she often showcased her talent in school, church, and within her community. A hard core fan of hip hop and pop music, Tiara developed her sound early and set out to carve her own lane in music by fusing her love for pop and alternative music, ballads, and rap with instrumentation. She attended Lawrence North High School.

Tiara met founders of The Board Administration Wale and Le'Greg O. Harrison in a club in Atlanta during a Wale concert in 2009. After exchanging information and submitting music, Tiara received a response and positive feedback after three months. Shortly thereafter, she traveled to New York City where she opened for Wale and shared the stage with Diggy Simmons, J. Cole and Fabolous at the Highline Ballroom.Tiara signed to The Board Administration in 2011.

She is well known for viral promotions via Twitter and Youtube and recognized for new online musical content, live performance streams, and cover performances of popular music. August 3, 2010 the world was introduced to Tiara Thomas on The Cloud with Wale through mixtape installment More About Nothing. Tiara's name trended worldwide May 30, 2011 on Twitter the day The Cloud video released.

Tiara Thomas was selected as a 2011-2012 Campaign Spokesperson for the American Eagle Outfitters Back to School We The People Campaign.Tiara's likeness is canvassed in New York's Time Square at the American Eagle Outfitters Flag Ship Store Location and across the continental US in all 900+ stores worldwide. Her original songs for the campaign Denim and Wassup are featured on the American Eagle Outfitters website and were circulated to the masses through their social media campaign.

Tiara graduated from Ball State University in June 2012. She is working on her debut LP Sallie Mae, and is currently featured on Wale's recent release "Bad". The latter peaked at #21 on the Billboard Hot 100, becoming her first Hot 100 and top 40 entry. In June 2013, it was announced she had left Wale's record label The Board Administration to sign with Rico Love's Division 1 record label in a joint deal with Interscope Geffen A&M. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tiara+Thomas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.