The first semblance of what would become Tides Within was conceived in hazy isolation. Riffs were retrieved from altered states and forged together. Jams ensued, muscle and flesh started forming over these skeletal structures.

Guitarists Alex Coelho and Jeff Jardine realized potential in these primordial soundscapes and enlisted help. Bassist Andrew Jude Riotto (founder of NYC sludge doom heavyweights Agnosis) brought the low-end while veteran skinsman Bill Angelini (of Malstrom) gave it a pulse. Shows followed TW's formation quickly, including gigs with Stinking Lizaveta, Negative Reaction and Valkyrie.

A demo surfaced shortly after the winter solstice before the band entered Estate Sound Studios to record their first full-length offering "Worship",. Mixed by Andrew and Kurt Leege at Lucid Studios in Brooklyn, the end result could best be described as epic, doomed soundscapes. The visions wind from nodding entrancement to desperate urgency. Punishing descents are rewarded by astral ascension.

The debut recording garnered wide-ranging praise for its clarity of vision and innovative sound. Mark Hensch of Anti-Music.com raved that "If one is looking for top-notch, inspirational doom that spans the gap between stone-shattering lows and soaring, ethereal highs, one need look no farther than this. Tides Within is a hungry young band with tons of potential amidst all the empyreal hymns and quantum mantras of this CD". Jay Snyder of Hellride Music wrote that Tides Within shares stylistic elements with the "epic death dealers but with a take on this type of material that is all their own that includes a dash of pummeling doom".

Upon the release of "Worship" by Dark Matter Recordings, more live appearances followed, spanning the East Coast, including memorable dates with Ocean, Teeth of the Hydra, Ogre, and Middian. Currently the band is gearing up to bring its epic and crushing live performances to the South and Midwest as part of their summer tour. Also, a new demo is in the works, the prelude to the second LP. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tides+Within">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.