“One to watch.” ~The Dallas Observer
“A Hot New Artist!” ~ Good Morning Texas
“A phenom!” and “A prodigy!” ~The Kessler Theater
“One of 10 Up and Coming Artists in Dallas” ~Modern Luxury Dallas
She has been compared to Norah Jones, and Regina Spektor among others, but Tiger Darrow’s sound is completely her own. Her musical influences include Imogen Heap, Danny  Elfman, Bon Iver, U2, Jason Mraz, Jamie Cullum and Katy Perry.  
Tiger is a senior music major at the prestigious Booker T. Washington High School for the Performing and Visual Arts in Dallas, Texas. Austin raised, she is a singer, songwriter, guitarist, cellist who appears regularly as a headlining performer at theaters, nightclubs, coffee shops, and special events. She will be attending NYU in the fall of 2011.
In January 2011, Tiger released TWO new albums.  HELLO was produced by Cary Pierce (Jackopierce) on his foreverything music label.  YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE was self-produced by Tiger on her own Tiger Darrow Music label. Both albums are available on iTunes and for purchase through Tiger’s website, www.tigerdarrow.com .
Her music video for “Thinkin’ ‘Bout You” from her album, HELLO, was released in January 2011 on youtube on the TigerDarrowMusic Channel.
As an actress, Tiger has appeared in more than a dozen films including Robert Rodriguez’ Spy Kids 2, Spy Kids 3-D, Spy Kids 4, and Shark Boy and Lava Girl.  Most recently, Tiger worked at Troublemaker Studios as a crew member.  While working on post-production of the feature film, MACHETE, Rodriguez selected three of her compositions for use in the score of the film.  Following post-production on MACHETE, Tiger returned to TMS to work on the production of Spy Kids 4 as a crew member and composer of additional music.
Recent accolades include: the 2010 Discus Award, the 2010 National Downbeat Music Award for Studio Engineering, and the selection of her music video for her original song, “The Writer”, for the 2010 Foursite Film Festival in Ogden, Utah. Tiger was selected for the Booker T. Washington High School Songshop Scholarship in 2009 and 2010. The Booker 3, Vol.1 EP includes her single, “Only A Year”.  The upcoming Booker 3, Vol. 2 EP will include her single, “I Just Know”.
The Born Free Foundation, dedicated to wildlife preservation, adopted Tiger’s song “Beautiful Release” to benefit the foundation; the song is linked to the foundation’s website and all downloads benefit the organization. 
Tiger is a SAG Eligible actress, and a BMI Registered musician.

CONTACT INFORMATION
Tiger Darrow Music
c/o Peyton Hayslip, Manager
2807 Allen Street, Ste. 348
Dallas, TX 75204
www.tigerdarrow.com
www.reverbnation.com/tigerdarrow
www.myspace.com/tigerdarrow
www.youtube.com/tigerdarrowmusic
Look for Tiger Darrow on iTunes, too! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tiger+Darrow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.