Tigertailz are a glam metal band hailing from Cardiff, Wales. Known as one of the most flamboyantly sleazy groups of their era, they are most famous for their 1990 album 'Bezerk', which made the U.K. Top 40 and spawned three successful singles including the metal anthem "Love Bomb Baby".

Early years (1986-1990)

Part of the nascent glam metal scene in the late 1980s, Tigertailz first line-up issued their debut album, Young And Crazy, in 1987. The album featured vocalist Steevi Jaimz, guitarist Jay Pepper, bassist Pepsi Tate (Huw Justin Smith (1965-2007)) and drummer Ace Finchum. The debut created interest in the band and spawned the anthemic single "Livin' Without You."

As the band toured playing said album, it became clear that vocalist Steevi Jaimz was not as committed to the band as might be hoped, and several instances of fighting due to the influence of drink were recorded. The band felt they had no choice but to part company with Jaimz in order to progress. They recruited flamboyant hard rock vocalist Kim Hooker to replace Jaimz in time for follow-up album 'Bezerk', which was eventually released to great critical acclaim in 1990 on the Music For Nations label.

Commercial success (1990-1995)

Hooker's vocals and stage presence took the band to a new commercial level. Prior to the release of Bezerk, the band re-recorded "Livin Without' You" with Hooker and released it as a single. Bezerk saw the band breakthrough as a headline act, selling out medium sized venues and delivering three singles: "Love Bomb Baby", "Noise Level Critical", and "Heaven". The album itself made it into the U.K. Top 40 and Tigertailz frequently found themselves on the cover of leading rock magazines. The group's sleazy public image and rambunctious escapades became as well known as their music.

Even though the song "Love Bomb Baby" broke the band through into a real international audience for the fist time, with there being major airplay in the U.S., Tigertailz's commercial peak would be short. Due to a series of deals gone wrong and the onset of grunge alongside Britpop, musical movements that captured the zeitgeist away from the band's brand of party-ready metal, Tigertailz were effectively on ice for many years. They did, however, release Banzai!, a collection of B-sides and re-recorded tracks, in 1991 in Japan. They also put out Wazbones in 1995, by which time the classic Hooker-Pepper-Tate-Finchum line-up had fragmented. Touring proved successful, but there was insufficient long term record company interest to sustain the band.

Reunion (2005-2007)

In 2005, the band reformed their classic line-up, with the addition of former City Kidds drummer Matt Blakout who replaced Ace Finchum. The band won a court order winning ownership of the Tigertailz name from a spin-off band fronted by Steevi Jaimz, with Finchum on drums. Some fans had been confused by the appearance of the Jaimz-fronted Tigertailz, a band that in no way represented the classic Bezerk era. This problem resolved, the real Tigertailz were able to work on the long awaited Bezerk 2.0, recapturing the larger-than-life style that originally made them famous, and their release featuring a suitably over-the-top, bombastic production.

They then completed a short reunion tour of the U.K., culminating in some festival dates in Sweden and Spain, playing to over 70,000 people with bands of the caliber of Whitesnake and Twisted Sister. Kerrang! magazine wrote in praise of the reunion - journalist Steve Beebee describing it as "persistently entertaining, with monstrous melodies that reach delirious peaks".

Bezerk 2.0 was released through Demolition Records on 7 August 2006. In recent times, bass player Pepsi Tate had been fighting pancreatic cancer. The band signed a new record deal with Sanctuary Records and released new album Thrill Pistol on 27 August 2007, barely a year after their previous album release. This release is in fact a double CD packaged with the original 1992 version of the Wazbones album that was never officially released. Music commentator Steve Beebee again wrote in praise of the new album in Kerrang!, calling on fans to "kindly hail this rejuvenated band for the time-defying devils they are."

The album release was overshadowed though, as Pepsi Tate lost his cancer battle and died September 18, 2007, less than a month after its release. 

The band signed a new recording contract with Sanctuary Records, and in August 2007 released 'Thrill Pistol', a double album packaged with the previously unreleased original version of 1992's Wazbones album.  Following Tate's death in September 2007, Tigertailz continued to tour with former City Kidds lead guitarist Glenn "Nailz" Quinn playing bass.

Bezerk anniversary (2010)
In January 2010, Tigertailz recruited Sarah Firebrand as their new bass player. They played Bezerk entirely in sequence at some live shows, recording some performances for a future live album. After an April benefit performance at the Fuel Rock Club in Cardiff for the Amser Justin Time charity, set up in Pepsi Tate's memory, the band headlined the Stockholm Rock Out Festival in Sweden in May.  Following further Bezerk Live dates, Tigertailz replaced drummer Matt Blakout with former Rachel Stamp drummer Robin Guy. Tigertailz headlined the first night of 2010's Hard Rock Hell and released Bezerk Live - Burnin' Fuel in December. In June 2011, Ace Finchum rejoined the band.  The band parted company with Sarah Firebrand in late 2011.  Frontman Kim Hooker left in 2012, the remaining members citing "a total breakdown of relationship resulting from the singer's unprofessional conduct".

New line-up (2012)
On 26 June 2012, Tigertailz announced its new line-up, and a European tour for September and October. Joining original members Jay Pepper and Ace Finchum were Jules Millis (vocals), Rob Wylde (guitar) and Jason Sims (bass). The band re-recorded an old song, "Fall In Love Again" in Pepsi Tate's memory.

After a tour and an appearance at the Hard Rock Hell festival, this line-up fragmented in 2013. In a statement, Jay Pepper confirmed that there would be no reunion but that he would continue to perform as Tigertailz, and in June 2013 it was confirmed that drummer Matthew Blakout had re-joined the band, with Wylde switching from guitar to bass, and a new EP ' 'Knives' being prepared for release.  On 7 October 2013, the Classic Rock Magazine website premiered Tigertailz latest video "The Shoe Collector", ahead of the release of the "Knives" EP on 15 October. The magazine described it as "a major step on Tigertailz’ road back from the brink".  On 17 February 2014, Classic Rock premiered the second video release from "Knives" EP "One Life". On 30 June 2014, Classic Rock once again premiered the final video from "Knives" EP "Punched In The Gutz" Filmed in Cardiff's St David's Hall in November 2013.

Tigertailz announced European tour dates for Autumn 2014 and also made their US debut. They supported Kiss and Cheap Trick on the 2014 Kiss Kruise.  A further line up change happened in 2015 when vocalist Jules Millis was replaced by guitarist turned bassist now turned vocalist Rob Wylde, with the bass position being filled by Berty Burton.

In 2016, this line up released the song "Pipped It, Popped It" which they - unsuccessfully - submitted for consideration as a UK Eurovision Song Contest entry. The song was included on the largely ignored 2016 Blast album released on the band's own TT Records.

Bare Knuckle Messiahs (2019)
A second Tigertailz reunion (of sorts) took place in 2019 when departed vocalist Kim Hooker announced his new band Bare Knuckle Messiahs which features Hooker on vocals and guitar, joined by two former "Wazbones" era Tigertailz members, guitarist Cy Danaher and drummer Andy Skinner, with the line up being rounded out with the addition of bassist JJ.  Hooker's new band released their debut album That Which Preys On The Dead through the DIAFOL label in October 2019.

In 2019, the band were forced to cancel an appearance at Hard Rock Hell due to guitarist Jay Pepper's worsening hearing loss.  Tigertailz made a headline appearance at the 2021 Hard Rock Hell event in Sheffield 1st August 2021 to a sold out crowd and followed up with a performance at another Hard Rock Hell festival in Great Yarmouth 6th November. Jay Pepper having overcome his hearing difficulties.

Jay Pepper confirmed Tigertailz will continue to perform and record into 2022.

http://tigertailz.co.uk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tigertailz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.