Tiger Lou is the main project of singer/songwriter Rasmus Kellerman from Nyköping, Sweden, founded in 2001.

He debuted the autumn of 2003 with the EP Trouble and Desire on legendary Swedish independent label Startracks. The EP included the track Sam, as in Samantha for which a dramatic and striking video was made by director Magnus Renfors. Interest came quickly both in Sweden and abroad. The EP was released the same autumn in the US on the Parasol label. Straight after the EP's release Rasmus set out on a month long solo tour stateside and also had time to squeeze in a tour of Germany with only this EP released.

Tiger Lou is also involved in several other musical constellations: Araki, Las Puertas (along with his wife Andrea, Firefox AK) and Yun Bao to name a few.

The album Is My Head Still On? was released the spring of 2004 which included the singles and videos Oh Horatio, Sell Out and The War Between Us. The feedback was excellent and Tiger Lou was nominated "Newcomer of the Year" at the Swedish alternative music awards Manifest and the video for "Oh Horatio", again directed by Magnus Renfors, was nominated for a Swedish Grammi in the "Best Video" category. Tiger Lou continued to tour both with a band and as a solo act. A long tour with Weeping Willows in Scandinavia, solo shows and additional band tours covering Germany, Holland, Austria and Belgium followed. Slowly but surely a strong and loyal fan base was building.

The touring band consists of Pontus Levahn on drums, Erik Welén on bass and Mathias Johansson on guitar. Rolf Klinth has co-produced all of Tiger Lou’s recordings since 1997 and is as important to Tiger Lou as water is to plants. He is trying to quit smoking, is disturbed by the thought of touching butter or margarine, prefers dancing to "Frequency" by Rex The Dog and ranks "Rushmore" as the best film ever.

Rasmus Kellerman was born 1980 and is currently living and writing music in Berlin. He works as a graphic designer, likes film and enjoys a good Rioja wine. The name Tiger Lou is taken from the carachter Tiger Lu in the film "Fong Sai-Yuk" from 1993.

Tiger Lou's second album The Loyal was released in 2005.  His music has also been featured on the American television show "The OC".

Third album "A Partial Print" to be released on the 22nd of October 2008.

Official website: http://www.tigerlou.net/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tiger+Lou">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.