Tim has performed as a guitarist/singer for over a decade, both with bands and as a solo act.
With a healthy influence of Folk, Classical, Latin Jazz, Flamenco and Blues Guitar, his current live repertoire consists of an eclectic mix of guitar based music.

Tim completed his Bachelor of Music (Jazz guitar) at Monash University, Victoria in 2000.
Since this time he has worked as a classroom music teacher, composer and session musician.
Most recently Tim has been focusing on his solo career as a guitarist; he has performed solo shows in Ecuador, Costa Rica and India.
In late 2006 he toured Germany, Austria, Switzerland and Belgium for five months as guitarist for folk group 'Naked Raven', during this time he also performed 30 solo shows throughout Germany.
Tim has recently released his debut LP 'Afterparty' through T3 records (Europe) and has just completed a two month long tour of Germany and East Coast Australia. He is currently in the studio preparing an LP due for release in Australia in June 2008.

From around 2008 he began performing live shows in Australia with the Tim McMillan Band, with a varying cast of collaborators. Some previous regular band members included Brad Lewis (bass), Matt Crute (of Full Scale / Full Scale Revolution (drums), Trent Menasser (rhythm guitar) (of Lan Party), and Shane Evans (of Engine Three Seven (drums). When in Australia, McMillan's live shows are usually quite humourous, as in addition to Tim's bizarre stories (which he refers to as "yarns") between songs, the band may cover anything from Metallica to Kylie Minogue to Terence Trent d'Arby. They are also known for frequently and somewhat arbitrarily changing the description of their genre, with little or no change in their actual musical style, using such labels as "acoustic Viking metal", "goblincore" and "Austrian dungeon incest metal". This would seem to be poking fun at the various subgenres of heavy metal music.

McMillan now spends most of his time in Germany, returning to Australia in the summer. In his more recent studio albums and live shows, he collaborates with violinist Rachel Snow. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tim+McMillan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.