TIM DONAHUE stands proud among the many guitar protagonists as being one of the very few to have totally mastered the skill of performing on fretless lead guitar within the Rock format. As a graduate of Boston's Berklee College of Music Donahue, struggling to find a sought after sound on conventional 
instruments, built his own fretless device. This left field approach would signal the inception of a career which would emrace all styles of music from Symphonic Rock, Fusion, Jazz and Hard Rock.

Relocating to Japan, Donahue's opening gambit was the 'Fifth Season' album. The studio band for this record comprised of bassist Kevin Axt, drummer Joel Taylor and keyboard player Ken Shima. The record certainly turned heads, especially in the Jazz Rock field. 

Building upon this success the guitarist changed tack and returned, touting a whole new instrument innovation- - the fretless electric harp guitar. In order to maximise the full potential of these harp guitars Donahue painstakingly developed completely new playing practices which, at times, leaves the listener 
thinking there is more than one player involved. This novel method combined with his own distinctive sound ignited a solo career leading through a series of well received albums.
 
Donahue signed up with Nippon Crown Records for the 1994 record 'Still Dreaming'. Assisting in the studio would be accomplished Japanese musicians Tatsuhiko Hizawa on fretless bass guitar, Masay Nakano on keyboards and drummer Jun Saito. This outing caught the attention of film makers Shochiku Productions who would in turn persuade Donahue to score the 'Marks No Yama' movie soundtrack, a major Japanese psychological thriller. With Donahue adding mandolin to his repertoire Hizawa, Nakano and Saito would turn in performances yet again together with 
flutes, bagpipes and full orchestration.

In 1997 Donahue ventured into the realms of Progressive Rock cutting the Eddie Kramer produced 'Voices In The Wind' album. Vocals were on hand from an undisputed giant of the Rock World- PAUL RODGERS of FREE and BAD COMPANY. Bass, fretless naturally, came courtesy of Jaz Lochrie whilst Toss Panos supplied drums. 

During 2000 Donahue would unite with vocalist Kelly Hansen of HURRICANE and UNRULY CHILD fame forging a band project 'Into The Light' for an eponymous album. 2003 saw the formation of MADMEN & SINNERS, a collaboration between Donahue, DREAM THEATER singer James LaBrie and the ANNIHILATOR, STEVE VAI and 
EXTREME credited drummer Mike Mangini.

Credit/s: Garry Sharpe-Young
Copyright: © 2001-2007 Musicdetector Websites
Last updated: 23 December 2003 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tim+Donahue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.