Tim's music sounds nothing like your run-of-he-mill, straight-to-DJ floor chow, but subtly turns heads with a cohesive, fully-formed musical vision that shines in the club and at home.

Booking: booking@wir-booking.com

One of Cologne’s youngest and brightest electronic music stars on the rise, Tim Engelhardt didn't gatecrash the scene out of leftfield, but started his path to connoisseurship fairly early on: trying to rewrite the piano pieces he had to practice at the tender age of eight, he showed an independent creative mind from the get-go - a character trait that would prove exremely helpful for a later career as electronic music producer. But it was only when Tim later discovered the releases of Cologne techno luminary Robert Babicz that synthesizers and bass drums moved into focus - a brilliant producer, live performer and mastering engineer with a keen sense for sonic detail, Babicz became the perfect role model for young Tim, inspiring our hero to seek out his own place in electronic music while honing a concise understanding for all facets of production.

Part of a diverse new breed of young producers that get their cues from all sorts of genres and listening situations, Tim still stands apart, having released his very first record when he was just 14 years old. Combining profound musical knowledge with intuitive playfulness, his solid pianist background becomes rather obvious in the great care he takes over harmonies and an expanded melodic structure. Pair that with the organic fluidity and atmospheric dexterity of his music and you've got yourself a winning recipe. Consequently, Tim grew his portfolio with plenty outings on labels such as Traum Schallplatten, WIR, Babiczstyle, Amuse Gueule, Ostwind Records, Popart Music, Playmusic Productions, Parquet Recordings, Manual Music and Steve Bug's iconic Poker Flat Recordings– an impressive amount of label royalty that he's amassed in only four short years. Stay tuned for more Tim Engelhardt on key imprints such as Dixon's Innervisions or Cityfox - exciting things are coming your way.

Underscored by a torrent of remix and release offers, Tim's busy schedule is testament to his growing popularity among electronic music fans - preparations for tours to the US, Asia and India are underway, and also a first trip to Australia has already been checked off that bucket list. Meanwhile, inspiration for Tim's personal brand of melodic house and techno can come from many sources: childhood memories of Mike Oldfield's "Tubular Bells" playing in his dad's car, a walk in nature - or simply mining his modular synth for happy accidents. Gear, however, is only a means to an end for Tim: rather than drooling over hardware, he celebrates art with a distinct personality - art that carries a piece of its creator inside. To find the most powerful expression for the sounds in his head, that's his mission... which is why Tim's music sounds nothing like your run-of-he-mill, straight-to-DJ floor chow, but subtly turns heads with a cohesive, fully-formed musical vision that shines in the club and at home. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tim+Engelhardt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.