La course folle de Tim Dup, his 3rd opus, promises to make people dance on sunny days! The artist confides, smiling, that he took great pleasure in writing and composing it. We believe him. The album is a concentrate of delicacies. We find an accomplished pen, chiselled texts, pop'ised with sunshine. We discover a voice freed from its juvenile air, mastered more and more, a timbre that plays and wanders from octave to octave. It has taken her hours of stage time since Mélancolie heureuse (2017) to dare to play her, even in the arrangements. It took her a lot of work to flirt with the choruses with lightness. In her previous album, the artist questioned the future of the planet, the weight of time and the meaning of transmission. 2020 and its batch of uncertainties have vanished, touring and procrastination. What will be left of it? Its author answers in major and chooses to twist the intensity of life, the beauty of the ephemeral, a panache of modern elegance and sincerity.

The universe is an adventure. Tim Dup has a gift for taking us into the realm of metaphor. "I distil the day, I still the clouds". He threads his writing through the lexical fields of effluvia and the sky. He tints his music with a new freedom. The artist now tunes his solitary piano to the echoes of other musicians: strings, harp, flute, guitars, rhythms, electric bass, and two brilliant pianists, Thomas Enhco and Alexandre Tharaud. He joins his voice to those of three women artists, Anaïs Demoustier, for the first time a singer, Aurélie Saada and Marguerite dite Saane. A female bias? Their sensibilities are united and they want to sing together!

Each track tells a fragment of a story, each song chants out images from the cinema. Tim Dup poetises love - L'avventura - and takes us on a journey through the warmth of Italian cities, from the heights of Naples and Montecalvario, to childhood memories along the roads of Tuscany - Dolce ricordo. He makes the drunken dance - of alcohol and landscapes and flies to Osaka. "I plant flowers, others will pick them for me". This album was born during our first confinement, between the nascent fruits of the vineyard, the generous sun of spring and the suggested immobility. Tim wanted to sway the waves, to move the sounds. Juste pour te plaire, prologue title, cadences the stroll.

This 2021 vintage is delicious, Tim Dup luminous. We find his real-life inspired fragances and his faithful companions. Friendship and complicity in creation have created a particular emulsion in the artist's entourage. Pavane has co-produced his albums since his first EP. Hugo Pillard directs her videos one by one. Diane Sagnier has returned to photography and visual production. Fab Dupont has taken over the mixing for this new edition. Although Tim writes, composes, arranges and produces his songs, he is not alone. He likes to surround himself with others and bring out their talent. La course folle is a collective adventure. A third high-flying album that tells the story of La légèreté précieuse and takes us from the Sun to Les cinquantièmes hurlants.

An album full of songs. Tim Dup issues invitations for a sunny reunion, it's time to lighten up the winter, towards the mad rush of summer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tim+Dup">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.