Time`s Forgotten, the Costa Rican “progressive rock band” was born on the year 2004 in San José, Costa Rica, with the intention of experimenting with diverse textures and sounds to be fusioned with rock music, including electronic music, ethnic elements and heavy metal.
After working on the production of their first album “A Relative Moment of Peace”,  during a two and a half year period, the record was released in august of 2006, surprising the Costa Rican market with very considerable sales, considering that this is a band that had never played live before. In november of that year, the band`s first concert was scheduled on the Eugene O`Neill Theater in San José, with the idea of presenting the record to the fans that filled completely the 300 seats of the theater; even 60 people were left outside the venue.
For January of 2007 the band presented their album for the second time, this time in the beautiful Anfitheatre of the National Center of Culture of Costa Rica in front of a crowd of 600 people, impressive for being the band`s second show.
Beside the achievements at a national level, Time`s Forgotten was invited to participate on one of the most important progressive rock festivals on the planet: the Baja Prog festival in Mexicali, Mexico, where they shared the stage with some of the greatest names in the progressive genre, something never before achieved by a Costa Rican band.
During the last year Time`s Forgotten has shared the stage with international bands such as Angra from Brasil, EZOO and CAST from Mexico, and made several important appearances in Costa Rica.
By the end of 2007 the band has received several international and very good reviews on important media such as the Progression Magazine, Prog Archives, Mellotron Magazine, Prog Naut and many others for their debut album.
The band is currently working on a new record to be released sometime during 2009 and many other exciting projects. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Time%27s+Forgotten">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.