All titles and categories aside, Time Under Earth seeks only existence. To present something in this world which helps to further define what is going on around and inside of us, while at the same time not being defined itself. The ideal here is one of exposing greater truths within the listener. Hoping that the sounds which occur help to expose feelings, ideas, memories of dreams, and even the secret words by which we conjure ourselves to continue on with our dreams and eventual victories.

Time Under Earth is art metal and sonic evolution. Spawned from the aesthetic sublimations of Matthew Kinne in 2005, Time Under Earth was a solitary project attempting to realize the same purity as other “basement black metal” artists. Produced were two full length recordings, and various other songs. Never having the funds to put the music into the public Time Under Earth remained an obscure idea listened to only by friends and similar artists connected with on the internet.

However in January of 2010 Matt was able to reconnect with long time friend Travis Bex, the former band member from Syracuse, NY metal act Order Of Deceit. The vision was always that Travis would be the drummer. Unsurpassed in creative ability and dynamic flow Travis is the kind of drummer that harkens the collective memory of greats like Keith Moon and John Bonham- while pushing himself to achieve the technical capacity of those like Sean Reinert. The completion of their ideal did not make its way into the light until connecting with close friend Jeffrey Szczesniak (Synth), and guitarist Graham Reynolds from local grind/hardcore band Ed Gein. While rehearsing the three songs that consist of the bands current demo, the band was contacted by guitar player Judson Belmont who was looking to do something on par with the vision of the band: lacking any pretention and educated in understanding music as an art!

Time Under Earth is focused on continuing its aesthetic of metal as art- presented in a way that is immediately accessable. The lack of any vocals is a conscious decision made by the band in order to prevent status quo screaming or grunting from distorting the vision of the music. Conceptually the music is dedicated to representing everything from esoteric philosophical ideas, nature, political fallacy, existentialism, metaphysics, and love (or the lack of it). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/time+under+earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.