Time Crisis welcomes the challenge of pushing modern music forward by blurring the traditional lines that separate genres. The Pennsylvania-bred duo fuses electronic and organic sounds to produce an audio experience that is both progressive and catchy. From sequencer to six string, vocoder to violin, Time Crisis takes full advantage of an expansive sonic palette.

The duo began when Will Brown and Jon Markson met in Connecticut, where the PA natives attended college. Upon meeting, both were equipped with a unique take on music shaped by their respective upbringings.  Markson was accustomed to the eclectic buzz of Allentown, while Brown embraced the urban boom bap of Pittsburgh.  Markson was taken aback by Brown’s vertical stature and hip-hop instrumentals. Brown was equally enthralled by Markson’s moustache and guitar playing. The two bonded over a shared sense of humor and a passion for wildly expressive music, and Time Crisis was born.

Fameless Fam is honored to present the self-titled debut of Time Crisis. Ten songs deep, each track is as much a journey through the human heart as it is an exploration of instrumentation, arrangement, and voice. This true collage of the sonic-spectrum, from hip-hop to glitch-pop, to post-rock and back again, sets the stage for fellow Fam, partyboobytrap, to contribute their personal touches, including accompaniment from the acclaimed DJ Emoh Betta, and words from Virtue and Exquisite Corpse.  With the addition of turntablism and poignant rhymes, Time Crisis’ sundry sounds take on yet another layer of emotion and character.

Programmed percussion and live drums bounce with vigor, cloudy vocals sing triumphantly through the aural haze of acoustic guitar shattering over rolling bass lines and shining synths. This record encapsulates the mosaic of our generation through collaboration, and is sure to mark the start of a collective that will offer us honest and progressive music for years to come.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Time+Crisis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.