The band was formed in Macedonia ,2003.
The musical style can be described as a cross between melodic heavy and power/progressive metal (with some progressive or melodic death metal riffs noticed in the newer songs).

The lyrics are written in English and are most often concerned with the subjects in life, character forms, inner wars and feelings.

Before the final line up, the band had few changes,rehearsing few songs that were written prior the formation, Boban, Baltik, Gigo and Itze founded the future of the bands sound. Few months after, Vasko joined the band making the line up complete.

The band played on few concerts and soon released a demo CD "Diary Of Hate" in early 2003. The CD was mostly self distributed with a small and noticed help from Terror Blast Distro. The Demo was distributed throughout Macedonia and sent to few international web zines and web sites for reviews. Diary Of Hate received good reviews from many critics from webzines and fanzines in the ex-YU countries and in the Metal Observer(DE) and Metal Maniacs(IT) the only remark was for the not so good recording of the demo. The band got loyal fans since the begining, presenting a totally different metal style yet played to the crowd.

Vasko had trouble to support the promotion and attending rehearsals and being on tour, so he quit the band during in between the concerts in 2004. The band played a couple of concerts without a bass player before picking up two bass players who also quit before playing on stage at all because of other engagements.
Few months later Gigo was replaced with a new drummer, Dojchin, bringing perfect dynamics into the rhythm.

One of the most significant gigs was playing as warm-up band for Vader in Skopje, 2005.

Three more concerts followed and the band decided to take a break and start working on new material and fixing the problematic bass player spot.

The band has prepared enough material for their first album and the preceeding EP planned to be released by the end of 2009. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Timesand">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.