Towards the end of 2002, five guys, all in their early twenties, founded the band Timid Tiger in Cologne, Germany.

What's this all about, anyway? Well, Timid Tiger's a band. Half man, half tiger. In color and with real stripes. From a world just like yours. With talking pianos and singing sweetmeat swags. Posh consolation giraffes and stentorian terry cloth saucers. No path too near, no path too far.

Meeting now here, then there, discovering lovely little vest pocket operas for boys and girls alike, with the friendly support of select drum gear, a bouquet of electric guitars, a broken-down bass box, the English language and a whole handful of electronic bling bling.

And so it's been, since the summer of 2002, our own sort of animated orchestra with all sorts of sense of humor. Toy songs with a hum-along hook. One minute light and happy like a cotton candy dandelion on a sunny Flokati evening. The next minute lost and sad, like a tiny box of memories cast out in space, when you'd rather have kept it by you. With evil and with good. Now fully on, now fully off the mark. Just like in real cartoon life. Walk through the chirping looking glass, or follow your own shadow all the day long. That's Timid Tiger!

Music for see-sawing, dreaming, dancing arm in arm and clapping your hands. Music to kiss to till you can kiss no more. One half of our music is sappy, over-sweet and dripping with sentimentality, the other half is wild and moody like a flaming sunset in the east, and yet the two go naively, peacefully together, making up a whole.

Through the art of the great Klaus Cornfield, our Tiger came to life. He once said of us, we're "full of feeling, and yet rock". It's a very charming description, and we hope somehow he is right... We wish you loads of enjoyment listening, watching, dancing and reading, with a whole claw full of stardust in your eyes and in your heart...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Timid+Tiger">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.