The multi-faceted singer/rapper/songwriter, Tink grew up in Calumet City a south suburb outside of Chicago, Illinois. Starting her musical attributes at the age of seven, the young artists’ musical influences were from both her parents-- her mother being a gospel singer and father being a music producer.

​
     Tink started singing in the Church and from there her father encouraged her to write.
Attending the same high-school as Chicago’s nBa star Derrick rose at simeon High, Tink eagerly began to explore other facets of the music game and discovered she could do more than just sing, but rap as well. she started to take rap more seriously and has been going strong for four years now.

     The 18 year-old released her first R&B mixtape in March of 2012 entitled ‘Winters Diary,’ which can be found and downloaded on www.datpiff.com. After dropping her R&B mixtape, the young entertainer decided to focus on her rapping. tink’s second mix-tape titled “alter Ego” dropped July 2012 and can also be found on www.datpiff.com. Videos of tink can be found on Youtube, the most recent video release titled “Kardashian.”

     Tink has garnered more buzz on a major scale after her freestyle over a Chief Keef beat and posted it on his twitter. after retweeting the freestyle, the industry within Chicago started to pick up on tink’s music. gracing the cover of redeye, Chicago tribune, Fakeshoredrive. com, TheMash.com and many others, tink is off to a head start in more ways than one.
​
    Tink started singing in the Church and from there her father encouraged her to write. Attending the same high-school as Chicago’s N.B.A. star Derrick Rose at Simeon High, Tink eagerly began to explore other facets of the music game and discovered she could do more than just sing, but rap as well. she started to take rap more seriously and has been going strong for four years now.

     The 18 year-old released her first R&B mixtape in March of 2012 entitled ‘Winters Diary,’ which can be found and downloaded here. After dropping her R&B mixtape, the young entertainer decided to focus on her rapping. Tink’s second mix-tape titled “alter Ego” dropped July 2012 and can be downloaded here. Videos of tink can be found here.

     Tink has garnered more buzz on a major scale after her freestyle over a Chief Keef beat and posted it on his twitter. After retweeting the freestyle, the industry within Chicago started to pick up on Tink’s music. Gracing the cover of Redeye, Chicago Tribune, Fakeshoredrive. com, TheMash.com and many others, Tink is off to a head start in more ways than one.

http://www.officialtink.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tink">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.