Jesse Tittsworth's one‐of‐a‐kind approach has been influencing the world of dance music for over a decade. Establishing his own record label in 2006 with partner DJ Ayres, T&A Records has stayed consistently ahead of the curve. It was the first label to release Moombahton records and T&A Records is an important force in driving Baltimore Club internationally. Tittsworth's own production skills were made global in 2008 with his debut album “12 Steps”, receiving high praise from Billboard, DJ Mag, URB, XLR8R and more. Having a background in Baltimore Club, Electro House, and Moombahton, Tittsworth is setting his sights on stepping into the House and Techno playing field with his recent productions have taken a forward turn. Tittsworth’s unique style was birthed from his hometown of Washington, D.C.  Parties like Buzz at Nation/Capitol Ballroom, Tracks, The Edge and other warehouses/raves became longstanding inspirations, in addition to the local go-go, Baltimore club and hip-hop scenes. After a couple of DIY vinyl releases, this Chinese‐American omnivore soon progressed to playing major festivals around the world and is even on the soundtrack of FIFA 2012.

In 2010 Tittsworth helped open a premiere home for dance music in America as co‐owner of U Street Music Hall in his hometown. Even four years later, this “no frills and no dress code" club is consistently named one of the best in the US by Beatport, Rolling Stone, and countless A-list DJ's. Tittsworth is currently touring and in the studio working on new material. This is in addition to upcoming remixes of Tittsworth from his supporters Laidback Luke, Nadastrom, Jay Fay, Juyen Sebulba, AC Slater and more. In 2013 alone, Tittsworth has toured throughout Asia, played in Nicaragua, released several acclaimed remixes, and toured 50 cities in the US all in preparation for 2014. 
In 2014 Tittsworth released a Moombahton / Reggaeton single “Que Fresca” that reached #3 on twitter as reported by The Hype Machine and was the #4 most popular song in the soundcloud dance category. His recent single “After The Dance” featuring Q-Tip and Theophilus London was the #3 overall most popular song on The Hype Machine being featured on Okayplayer.com (Questlove’s music blog). Outside of the club, you can find Tittsworth abusing flyer miles to get tattooed, collect questionable calories and cultural anomalies.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tittsworth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.