Titus is the name of at least three different bands:

1. Christian Rapper
2. Christian Progressive Metal band
3. German trance artist Titus Aust


1) Titus, Christian Rapper: “Not just another rapper”, is how Titus describes himself. “Hot Tracks love em, nice lines need em, but if you can’t see the glory of Jesus Christ in every song, then it doesn’t make the cut.”

Titus is preparing to release his debut album, “Cultural Vandalism” in the spring of 2008; an album which directly talks about the culture and how Jesus Christ is not pleased with it, and how Christ isn’t accepted or respected in today’s society. “All of mankind will be judged for their actions, Christian or not,” Titus says.

Titus grew up in St. Louis, Missouri where he realized his passion for music at a young age. After 17 years of doing secular music with friends and family, he was drawn into a relationship with Jesus. Taking a break from music to focus more on the Lord, he now returns to the music with a new found motivation and passion. “You  won’t hear about riding 24’s, sipping bubbly, popping gats, getting money, chasing women in nothing I do, just growing, worshiping, and living like Christ in every aspect of life which will give you a new view for the list of the prior things named.

“Music is not the driving force in my life that keeps me going, but the saving grace of Christ is. Being active in my church home, being an example to friends and family, and just simply living out the faith are weightier things in my life then music. I want to be seen as a man after the heart of God not just a man after roaring crowds, awards, and accolades.” 

“Don’t be at my shows screamin’ and wavin’ hand/ When you leaving you not in these wicked streets laboring/ Where the real hustlers that hustle for the Savior/ Some of us want the new birth but we scared to go through labor./”


2) Titus may refer to the Christian Progressive Metal band from South Africa who released their only album "Fade" in 2001 before splitting up.


3) Titus Aust – German trance artist. This artist has no single artist release groups. 
Various Artist Compilations:

2003 – Actual Dance Hits
2003 – Tunnel Trance Force, Volume 26
2005 – Tunnel Trance Force, Volume 33
2005 – Trance: The Vocal Session 2006
2006 – Tunnel Trance Force, Volume 37
2006 – Trance 2006, Volume 3: The Vocal Session
???? – Cream Winter Edition
???? – Deep Trance, Volume 8 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Titus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.