At the age of 16 Tiwa Savage was opportune to sing backup for George Michael. Before this opportunity, she was a member of her high school band, puffing on her trombone near the back of the orchestra. It was at this point that Savage gazed through the rows of musicians and realized that her destiny is to be positioned in the spotlight; singing in front of the orchestra.

A blossoming star, folks about town in London started to take notice and she was soon performing at local talent shows. Cementing her fate as an infectious musical force Savage went on to sing backup for Mary J. Blige, Chaka Khan, Emma Bunton (Spice Girls), Kelly Clarkson, Blu Cantrell, Andreas Bocelli and has shared the stage with the likes of Sting, 50 Cent, The Black Eyed Peas, Eminem, Robbie Williams, and Destiny’s Child to name a few.

On the business end Tiwa set her own 323 imprint with entrepreneur Tunji "Tee Billz" Balogun and currently signed to Sony ATV as a songwriter. Savage will embark on a solo career and will release her debut album in early 2011. She has also collaborated with Chuck Harmony (Rihanna, Mary J. Blige), Warren "Oak" Felder (Chris Brown and Jennifer Lopez), and producer So Sick (Da Grin) just to name a few, on her debut. Weaving an eclectic collision of influences on her record, the Nigerian native says her album will blend "songs in my native language Yoruba and some straight up R&B soulful pop records."

An avid songwriter since the age of 15, she has recorded with industry heavyweights such as Babyface, The Underdogs (Justin Timberlake, Britney Spears), Brian Kennedy (Jennifer Hudson, Kid Sister) and Red One (Lady Gaga, Kylie Minogue) led to Savage writing hits like Jaicko's "Oh Yeah," which features Snoop Dogg, Kat Deluna's "Push Push" featuring Akon and with production by David Guetta, Fantasia's "Collard Greens & Cornbread," from the album Back to Me, records on Letoya Luckett’s upcoming album and with background vocal credits on Whitney Houston’s album “I look to you.”

Although being a songwriter for such prominent artists was a great opportunity and experience, writing for herself has been more rewarding. "I have political songs like 'Middle Passage,' which is about the struggles of African men in a foreign country," says the scholarship recipient and graduate of Berklee College of Music. A beautiful, naturally gifted songwriter, electrifying performer with a voice that is as sweet as honey, Tiwa Savage is ready to share her music wit the world. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tiwa+Savage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.