There are 5 artists and or groups with this name.

1) Tom 'TKO' Owens is an Australian hip-hop artist from Newcastle, Australia and currently taking the scene by storm.

2) A Seattle based hard rock/heavy metal band formed in 1977
Brad Sinsel formed TKO in 1977 with Rick Pierce. Two years later, TKO released its debut LP, Let It Roll, and by 1981, the band was headlining shows at Seattle and touring as the opening act for AC/DC, Van Halen, Heart, The Kinks and Cheap Trick. TKO went through several personnel changes before recording its best-known album In Your Face, in 1984, and its final album, Below the Belt, in 1986. TKO broke up in 1987, and individual members went on to pursue other projects, most notable, Sheeley and Pierce formed Q5 with Floyd Rose. In 1997, the band reunited for a rare performance as part of Seattle's Pain in the Grass concert series. The band reissued their albums through Metal Mayhem Music, and their Northwest Passage show in 2001 was in celebration of the Seattle band's best works. A 2-CD compilation was released in 2000, titled In Your Face And Up Your Ass. The band has reunited sporadically for shows starting in 1994, their most recent live appearances taking place at the Legions of Metal II festival in Chicago in May 2018 and the Headbangers Open Air festival in Germany in July 2018, TKO's first ever European show.

3) An Irish jam/rock band formed in 2004
TKO  are a jam/rock band from Dublin, Ireland formed in 2004. The TKO sound is best described as micro-orchestral jam rock, infusing drums, bass and guitars with saxophone, acoustics, violin, clarinet, banjo, harmonica and lap steel. It combines the band’s influences of rock, bluegrass and classical with the members’ current inspirations. TKO’s first release, the Hats Off EP (May 2005) has to date sold over a thousand copies. Their 2006 single, Let's Go  (released to help raise awareness for Irish road safety), went top 40 in Ireland. The supporting tour visited venues around Ireland and the band made numerous radio appearances for publicity. Having supported influential Irish band The Frames in Vicar Street, and having supported Duke Special, Mundy, Delorentos, Jack L, Damien Dempsey, Ham Sandwich, The Blizzards and many other established acts. The band came to public attention in 2007 with over 80 shows played, a live album Act One, Scene One released and the aptly titled thirteen-date ‘Tour For The Sake Of Touring’ successfully undertaken. They received much positive media attention from many publications including Metro, Northside People, The Star, The Irish Times and Hotpress. A TV appearance on Dublin’s City Channel and a very well viewed performance on webby award nominee website Balcony TV were also recorded during this time. The Summer of 2010 was a busy season, with the band clocking up 15 festival dates. Winning the Hot Press competition to play Castlepalooza. And finalizing their debut album, due for release mid 2011. As of March 19th 2011 the Keystone EP has been released.

Band Members:
As of 2011, the band consists of Mic Geraghty (vocals, acoustic guitar, twelve-string), Graham Geraghty(electric guitar, bass, harmonica, backing vocals), Si McArdle (violin, bass, backing vocals), Eoghan Russell (saxophone), Stephen Lynch (electric guitar, clarinet, backing vocals), and Mikey Madden (drums, percussion). The band underwent some membership changes in 2008, losing Silvestro ‘Cat’ Mascali on drums and gaining the jazz element of the saxophone. The band changed drummers again in 2010, with the departure of Andreas Onnberg.

www.tkohq.com 
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/TKO-HQ
http://www.facebook.com/tkohq
www.myspace.com/tkohq

4) TKO is a Hungarian gangster hip-hop group, originally formed by Kicsi Tyson and Ogli G. Their most known track titled Nesztek featuring Dopeman and Ganxsta Zolee is dissing a gypsy rap group called Fekete Vonat. 
They released their Mesél Az Alvilág album in 1999.

5) TKO is a hip-hop artist born in New Jersey who recently released her 3rd album 'Step 7' <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tko">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.