To Dust usually define their music as melodic
death metal. Their lyrics are almost always in English, however one song from the debut album “State of Nothing”, that was released earlier 2012, had one song with Swedish lyrics. That song has gotten a lot of praise from close friends and fans of the band which has led to more lyrics written in Swedish. The debut album was recorded and mixed in “Studio Bengt” in central Lund. 

The band has many different sources of influence; Entombed, Opeth, Soilwork, Dark Tranquililty, The Haunted, At the Gates and early In Flames have all had a significant impact. 

It all began as a few friends trying to make music together when they were about 15. Everyone except Fredrik went to the same school when they were younger and are even born in the same year, 1987. Members still in the band since then are Emil and Daniel, who were in the same class back then. Emil’s contribution to the band was, and still is, his riff-composing and songwriting. Daniel writes the lyrics . Sakis joined the band first of the other current members, as a guitarist.  Andreas and Jens were in a parallel class and played together in another band. They however could not find a strong enough candidate to hold the microphone and hence their band was disbanded after a long period of searching. These two bands competed for years and pushed the members to be as good and innovative as possible.

 Fredrik’s story differs a bit from the others. The band had struggled with a temporary solution for a few years when they decided to search social forums after a person with a unique skillset. They got contacted by a guy two years younger who happened to have just the right talent and after a short audition he became a member.

Andreas joined the band 2009 as a replacement to the former drummer, a friend of Emil, Daniel and Sakis. The band needed somebody who could keep a steady beat and keep time to help the band progress. They found a technical and motivated drummer who did just that. At this time the band became more driven and started playing more live shows.

When To Dust’s previous bass player left because of his newborn son, the obvious solution was to once again unite Andreas with his friend and former band member, Jens. This time wielding a bass instead of a guitar, a transition Jens had been working on for a few years. The two competing bands from the early days had now become united. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/To+dust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.