To-Mera is a progressive metal band from London, U.K., formed in 2005.

To-Mera began life as a project of Julie Kiss (ex-Without Face) and Lee Barrett (ex-Extreme Noise Terror, Disgust, Mussolini Headkick). After a series of lineups, the band stabilised in early 2005, after Tom MacLean met Kiss and offered his services as a guitarist. Kiss then enlisted the help of Ákos Pirisi as drummer for the band, and work commenced on writing material for a demo.

The intention was to fuse the musical interests of each of the members within a dark and atmospheric framework. As a result, To-Mera's style can be described as a mixture of the assorted metal sub-genres, classical music, and jazz.

The demo received a positive response on the internet and in various print publications (including being awarded "demo of the month" in both Zero Tolerance and Organ magazines), the demo was finally picked up by U.K. label Candlelight, and the band were offered a deal.

Once a permanent keyboardist was found in the form of Hugo Sheppard, the band spent the winter 2005/2006 writing material for their debut album.  Transcendental was recorded in May 2006 at locations in west Hungary and London, again with producer Brett Caldas-Lima at the reins, and released worldwide in September the same year.  Shortly before its release it was decided that, in order to function as a fully active band, continuing with a drummer based abroad would be logistically impossible; the decision was taken to part ways with Pirisi and Paul Westwood was brought in as his replacement in time for the band's debut shows.

Later in 2007, keyboardist Sheppard left the band for personal reasons. Hen, the guitarist and keyboard player from ultra-prog metal band Haken, replaced Sheppard shortly afterwards.

To-Mera worked on the follow-up to Transcendental throughout 2007. The album, Delusions, was released on 18th February 2008.  A few days later, bassist and founding member Lee Barrett announced his departure from the band, stating that he would be "unable to fulfill any possible future touring or musical commitments" due to his other work. A replacement was quickly  found in Mark Harrington.

www.to-mera.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/To-Mera">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.