Virtuoso guitarist Toby Knapp returns with an ambitious effort as he explores the many styles within the heavy metal genre. Joined by (Hungarian) guest vocalists Attila Csihar (Mayhem), Jeff Gruslin (ex vital remains), Dean Sternberg (ex Into Eternity), and Tom Cline (Noise Auction), Toby shows his wide range of influences from Malmsteen, Holdsworth, Fripp, and Jimmy Page. A true masterpiece as Toby conquers the heavy metal landscape, on this nine track effort released on the fast growing Shredguy Records label.

"KNAPP'S VIRTUOSITY SUGGESTS AN UNEASY PACT WITH THE SUPERNATURAL"- THE LAS VEGAS MERCURY. "KNAPP IS AN AXE WIZARD WHO IS A FIRESTORM OF RAZOR-SHARP RIFFERY"- BRAVE WORDS & BLOODY KNUCKLES. Described by Guitar World Magazine as a "carnivorous Malmsteen" and acknowledged as an "awesome talent" by everyone from the legendary Norwegian Mayhem to the man who discovered Yngwie Malmsteen, Mike Varney, Toby Knapp has been a cult figure in the metal scene for quite some time.

At the age of 18 he was profiled by Guitar World Magazine and was soon signed to Mike Varney's legendary shred label Shrapnel Records. By the age of 20 Knapp was collaborating with virtuosos such as Tony Fredianelli (guitarist for APOCRYPHA and THIRD EYE BLIND) as well as drum god, Ray Luzier (DAVID LEE ROTH AND BILLY SHEEHAN). Knapp's debut album "Guitar Distortion" was released in 1993 and was issued worldwide; Shrapnel in the States, Sony in Japan and in Europe by Roadrunner Records. The album helped to set new standards in odd-meter progressive rock, melding death metal and prog years before it became commonplace. The album still sells 15 years after it's release helping to inspire a new generation of musicians.

He kept busy throughout the nineties receiving endorsements from S.I.T strings and ADA amplification, releasing material on various indie labels, teaching guitar and giving guitar clinics. In the late nineties he formed the traditional metal band 'Onward'. Onward's demos circulated and the band was approached by some of the genres most formidable labels. In 2001 Knapp signed with Century Media records resulting in the albums 'Evermoving' and 'Reawaken'. Again, guitarists across the globe took serious inspiration from the fiery, raw yet progressive style Knapp showcased on these landmark records.

The popular Canadian magazine "Brave Words & Bloody Knuckles" described Knapp as "A guitar wizard who sounds like a crackhead fistfight between Yngwie Malmsteen and Randy Rhodes". Knapp toured the U.S supporting bands such as Exodus, Blind Guardian, Metal Church's David Wayne, Agent Steel, Symphony X and Angra as well as playing high profile shows; ProgPower in Chicago, Seattle's Abrasive Rock Fest, November to Dismember, Ultrasound and the Milwaukee Metalfest to name a few. Knapp was hailed by metal publications including Guitar World, Metal Maniacs and Hit Parader as being one of the hottest traditional metal guitarists on the scene.

Toby also contributed to several tribute albums including those paying homage to Michael Schenker, Uriah Heep, Savatage and most recently Knapp has participated in the "Shredding Across The World" cd series issued by Shredguy records as a showcase for some of the best underground guitarists in the world.
Germany's "Power Metal" Magazine recently dubbed him "The Quick String Sorcerer" in regards to his latest endeavors.

In late 2006 Knapp returned to the metal world after recording and releasing two albums back to back. Knapp's instrumental guitar album 'Polarizing Lines' and his Black Metal masterpiece Waxen's "Fumaroth". "On 'Polarizing' Knapp gets diabolical and tears up dark, eerie Black Metal solos in fine fashion, cool album and certainly worth the price"(excerpt from HARDROCKHAVEN review). METAL RULES .COM described Polarizing Lines as a "tour de force from a phoenomenal guitarist, Toby is a true musician made in BIG CAPITAL LETTERS". Polarizing Lines also received heavy rotation on New York's "The Academy of Shred" 88.5 FM WRUR. Waxen's "Fumaroth" followed suit by setting new standards, establishing Knapp as a master of whatever genre he wishes to explore; An excerpt from Vampire Magazine states "Just when you think BM is exhausted, Toby Knapp comes along and twists the formula, viewing it through the filter of his own musical history.......up and down the fretboard in occult majesty".

The buzz created from these albums made Knapp the first runner up for the lead guitar slot in the legendary death metal act Vital Remains when guitarist Dave Suzuki suffered hand injuries in 2006. However it was not meant to be, Dave healed and Vital Remains carried on with the Dechristianize line-up (minus Deicide's Glen Benton) The invitation to tour with Vital Remains returned in 2009 which Knapp declined in favor of concentrating on solo work and Godless Rising. "Tours don't mean shit to me anymore unless it's playing music I was involved in......or helping Mayhem out if that opportunity presented itself in the future" Knapp stated. "I am loyal to those I respect" (Knapp left a tour with Darkane and Soilwork following personality clashes with the Swedish musicians and their "management".

In September of 2007 Knapp enjoyed a large write up in METAL STORM MONTHLY, sharing the cover with the legendary Candlemass. After the re-issue of Knapp's back catalog (COURTESY OF METALBOLIC RECORDS) he embarked on a series of regional shows supporting such bands as Psyopus (Metal Blade Records) Despised Icon (Century Media) and Light This City(Prosthetic Records) among others.

In 2008 Knapp recorded his fourth solo album "Misanthropy Divine" with the help of former Into Eternity vocalist Dean Sternberg. "Misanthropy" landed Knapp a record deal and worldwide release of the album through Germany's "Rock It Up Records". "Misanthropy Divine" gained much critical acclaim earning an 8/10 score in the popular European magazine "Rock Hard" and a 98/100 score in Belgium's "Metal To Infinity" webzine.

Sonic Age records described "Misanthropy" as "A total shredfest from this charismatic guitarist, fans of Malmsteen will surely love this disc". In 2008 Knapp joined forces with Vital Remains co-founder Jeff Gruslin and Godless Rising (Moribund Records) and the result was "Trumpet Of Triumph" out in early 2010.

Knapp's latest solo album The Campaign was released in January 2010 via Shredguy Records and features guest vocalists Attila Csihar (Mayhem) Dean Sternberg (ex-Into Eternity) Jeff Gruslin (ex-Vital Remains/Godless Rising) and Tom Cline (Noise Auction). Having completed a 2009 Canadian tour playing guitar for Nuclear Blast's Darkane and now preparing for a full U.S. tour with Godless Rising, Knapp (recently dubbed "The Fastest Gun In The West" by Stratoblogster.blogspot.com and "A Force To Be Reckoned With" by Metal Rules Fanzine) continues to forge ahead as one of Metal's most enigmatic musicians. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Toby+Knapp">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.