There are several artists and bands called as TOGETHER:

1. A french house project of DJ Falcon and Thomas Bangalter of Daft Punk, who recorded for Bangalter's label Roulé and whose most notable songs are 'So Much Love To Give' and 'Together'.

The song "Together" begins with a short segment of speech from the film Pleasantville. The line "A time has come to make a decision: are we in this thing alone, or are we in it together?" appears in the bowling scene of the film. The main vocals in the song are sampled from Sweet Sensation's "Sincerely Yours". The background vocals were sampled from Slave's "Because of You".

Musical elements of "Together" later appeared during the encore performance of Daft Punk's 2007 live sets. A recording of the encore is included in the two-disc edition of the live album Alive 2007. Both the sets and the album renewed interest in the song.

Together also made the original version of Call On Me, which Eric Prydz made a remix of. Sadly, Together never got official clearance to use the sample. Prydz, however, did manage to get clearance for his mix, which led to most people crediting his version as the original.

2. Together were a three piece British dance act from the acid house era, who released 'Hardcore Uproar' in 1990 on ffrr. This can be seen performed live at a Blackburn warehouse party here: http://video.google.com/videoplay?docid=-2689610496113385307

3. Is DIY hardcore band from Lisbon, PT, formed in 2009. Grew up together in the political and activist hardcore environment, which affected our daily basic choices such as what we eat,what we wear, what we think and how we act. Together supports an anti-racist, anti-capitalist, drug free and 100% vegetarian lifestyle. Together we stand. www.myspace.com/togetherhxc

4. Together was a dutch heavy metal band from Apeldoorn, and was active between 1978 and 1985.

5. Together is a 5-piece band from Germany, formed in 2007. Their eclectic style includes hardcore punk with elements from classic rock, rock & roll, stoner rock and blues rock.

6. Together is a mysterious vaporwave project with cyberpunk aesthetic. freely available at: https://together8.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Together">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.