Paris born, Tokyo raised and now New York/Tokyo based international eclectic DJ, producer and international co-ordinator. Having lived in Tokyo more than 20 years since he was a kid, he has developed into one of the strongest crossover DJ’s in Tokyo and had also become a key person connecting the world and Japan (F Communications Japan representative, Mr.Bongo/Disorient Japan staff, Bossa Tres Jazz project co-ordinator etc.)

From 1992-1995 he participated in the development of the Paris underground club scene with friends DJ Deep and DJ Gregory through their ‘A Deep Groove’ unit and radio show on Paris’ Radio FG 98.2 FM. In February 2002 he launched his world famous project label collaborating with design team Robbie Bear & Leanne (thanks&praise, wadada) releasing worldwide the Tokyo underground hit ‘Melancholic Dub’ by Dan K. In January 2003 his 3rd mix CD ‘Deep Atmosphere - the journey continues’ was released on Flower records (Japan). He then decided to move to NYC to go more global and take his art to the next level! He still travels back to Tokyo every 2 months to continue a 8 year residency at the Sunday afternoon party at Aoyama Cay in Tokyo with DJ’s Nori, Kenji Hasegawa, and Fukuba. He also continues to host his weekly radio show every Wednesday on Shibuya FM called ‘Tokyo Club Mix Showcase’. His 4th Japan-only mix CD for Paris Yellow Productions/Art of Disco label was released in June 2005.

More recently he has been producing music with Isao Kumano as Tokyo/NYC project Tokyo Black Star on Sonar Kollektiv/Innervision (Tokyo Black Star ‘Pysche dance EP’ Innervision 01 and ‘Beyond the future EP Innervision 04) and on DJ Deep’s deeply rooted house music records label (Tokyo Black Star ‘Rainbow/Fantastique voyage’). His next Tokyo Black Star release on Innervision is expected in the fall.

As a DJ Alex is always busy. He has played the after party of Summer Stage at Shelter in June 2004 and with Francois K at the legendary Deep Space night at Cielo. He started his monthly party ‘Cosmic Boogie’ at NYC’s APT in May 2006. He had recently translated Laurent Garnier’s book ‘Electrochoc’ to Japanese. The book will be released early September in Japan with a promotional DJ tour to follow with Laurent in September.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tokyo+Black+Star">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.