Tom Swoon (formerly known as Pixel Cheese), was born June 6th 1993 in the small city of Goleniow, Poland. His interest in music started at a very young age; Tom was fascinated by rock music and started his very own rock band together with a group of friends when he was just 14. Jamming on the guitar was a daily escape and only fuelled his passion further. At the age of 17, he discovered electronic dance music and was inspired by artists such as Deadmau5 and Daft Punk.

Over the next few years, Tom taught himself the art of DJing, gradually improving through constant practice and flexing his mixing skills at a local club between school and at weekends. Once he had perfected these DJ skills, he saved up his earnings and bought a proper DJ setup, transforming himself from a bedroom DJ into an artist with an unrivalled drive for music production.

Within 6 months Tom had created his first bootlegs and unofficial remixes in his makeshift studio. These quickly received solid support from respected artists such as Nervo, Gareth Emery and Laidback Luke. His bootleg of David Guetta & Avicii vs. Laidback Luke – Till Sunshine, which was released under his moniker Pixel Cheese, topped over 15 million views on YouTube and instantly became one of the most successful bootlegs ever produced to date.

Following this success, at the end of 2011, his first official remix of Gareth Emery’s single “Tokyo” was released on Garuda and immediately climbed into Beatport’s Top 100 chart. This remix was followed by two other successful remixes for Steve Aoki and Kaskade, two of the pillars of modern electronic dance music. Tom was now on a journey towards his first single release and in March 2012, his debut track “Elva” went out on Ultra Records. “Elva” received support from the likes of Tiësto and kick-started Tom’s career, which was followed by his first European tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tom+Swoon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.