There are two people to whom Tom Wilson may refer.  One is a Scottish dance music artist , Thomas Gormley Wilson (1), and the other is a Philadelphia-born actor/comedian/singer, Thomas Francis Wilson Jr. (2)

(1)
Profile:
Born: 9th October 1951, Scotland, UK.
Died: 25th March 2004, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

Tom Wilson died on Thursday 25th March 2004 from a heart attack after a short illness. He will best be remembered for his long time contribution to the Scottish dance music scene. His web site book of condolences was signed by literally many hundreds of messages from family, friends, fans and music artists from across the world. As well as conversing with fans on his own site, Tom Wilson was also a member of the Discogs community.

His legendary multi-award winning dance music show - Steppin' Out - started in 1985 and ran for 14 years on Forth FM radio. Since the show was only broadcast to East and Central Scotland, long before the Internet boom, dance music fans would go to extraordinary lengths to hear it. It’s a fact that 5 men from Newcastle, England would all pile into an old Ford Transit van every Saturday and drive up to an area in Scotland just so they could hear it! Tapes of the show were sent all over the world, hence the reason there was requests for listeners in Australia, Canada and Hong Kong. Due to the success of his show and the Scottish dance music boom, Tom Wilson's Bonus Beats programme aired on Forth FM during the mid 1990's. This allowed many local DJ's the opportunity to provide one hour mixes on a weekday evening time basis.

Away from the radio, Tom would be soon in demand as a club DJ too, appearing across the country at numerous clubs and events such as Awesome 101, Fantazia, Rezerection and The Fubar. He also became a highly respected music producer, including the classic Techno Cat track that gave him a Top 40 UK hit, charted in several European countries and still finds its way on to many new compilation releases. Tom also compiled several compilation releases of his own, namely the Bouncin' Back and Bouncin' Beats series. After a brief spell working at several other Scottish radio stations, including Beat 106 and Real Radio, Tom rejoined Radio Forth in 2003 as head of music for both Forth One and Forth 2 and hosted two weekly shows including the ever popular Tom Wilson's Old Skool on a Sunday evening.

He was managed by Ian Robertson who was also the producer on his Steppin' Out record show.

(2)
Profile: April 15, 1959 (age 63)
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania,

Most well-known for playing the character Biff Tannen in the "Back to the Future" series. 

He has three albums:
2000: "In the Name of the Father" (contemporary Christian)
2005: "Tom Wilson is Funny!" (stand-up / comedy songs)
2009:  "Tom Wilson: Bigger Than You." (stand-up)

He is also a painter. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tom+Wilson">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.