Tomas Barfod is a Danish house DJ/producer and a member of Filur and electropop band WhoMadeWho, in which he is the drummer. He released the album "Salton Sea" on the label Friends of Friends in 2012.

Tomas has played drums since he was 10 years old, but at some point he started buying vintage synthesizers, samplers and sequencers. He slowly started DJing and producing music. Since then he has been doing a variety of electronic produced music, both alone and together with different partners (fx. Kasper Bjørke) and on various important record labels.

After some years in the electronic club scene live music was slowly catching in on him again, and he started WhoMadeWho with two fellow danes, in which he plays drums and produces. In general you could say his career has been rather diverse – basically he has been doing everything from ambient techno to Japanese pop.

For Tomas Barfod the kickstart came with the "Tomboy" acid/disco 12” series on Gomma Records, shortly afterwards surfaced releases on Get Physical, Kitsuné and Turbo, on which "Samba" and "I.K. Guitar" became club bangers.

Tomas also is a much requested remixer and has done remixes of such diverse artists as Bloc Party, Franz Ferdinand, Gorillaz, Lopazz, Telex, Chromeo and Asia Argento, just to name a few. As a DJ he has played legendary clubs like Fabric, Panorama Bar, Bar 25, Goa, Magazini Genarali, Razzmatazz, Lux and Social Club.

Tomas has been involved in many different constalations. The most succesful is WhoMadeWho, which has released 3 albums and has been touring the whole world from New York to Sydney and been playing the most significant clubs and festivals like Sónar, Glastonbury, Melt, Roskilde and 10 Days Off. WhoMadeWho is now signed on Kompakt.

Jatoma, his other trio, was founded in January 2010 and within a year they had a record contract with Kompakt and had released their debut album with exceptional reviews – from DJ Mag to The Independant. In addition to his underground productions Tomas has been working with a few international pop and urban acts like Dev, Young L, C.C. Sheffield, T. Mills etc. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tomas+Barfod">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.