There are multiple artists named Tombstone:

1) Tombstone is a solo project from Cittadella, Padua, Italy, created by Emanuele Lago in 1993. His music is a blend of post-industrial, noise and ambient with a gothic atmosphere inspired by old novels and tales. It could be called "gothic ambient", but it should not be mistaken for the typically keyboard-based works from other well known project; on the contrary Tombstone is something more noisy.
The first tapes were industrial experiments rather obscure and perverse, but the production on CDs is something original, both as background idea and inspiration and as sonorous atmosphere.

2) Tombstone is a psychedelic doom metal / sludge band from Paris, France, founded in Winter 2011 by Alex, Johan and Clement. Their music is deeply rooted in doom metal and fueled with some 1970s heavy rock influences and also darker old school metal acts. This entirely D.I.Y. band delivers powerful riffing, heavy grooves and hard but melodic vocals. 

3) Tombstone was a duo from New Zealand, active in the period between 2004-2008.

4) Tombstone (2006 - present) is a heavy metal band from Ostrobothnia, Finland. Their first album, "Made in Metal" was released in 2010. 

5)Tombstone (2009-2011) was a death metal / crust band from Istanbul, Turkey. It was founded by Ömer Runehammer (guitars, vocals), Oğuzhan (bass) and İsmail (drums). They didn't release any records other than a demo which was consisted of two originals "Ash Nazg" and "Dark Shaman", and a Celtic Frost cover "Dethroned Emperor". The band disbanded in 2011. Afterwards Runehammer went on to found Rötbrains, a blackened crust band.

6)Tombstone(2017-present) is a Metal band based in Enfield Connecticut. The band consists of Erik Golden on vocals, Nic Armstrong and Andrew Mastrangelo on guitar, Austin L. Cook on bass, and Vince Criscio on drums. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tombstone">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.