Originally known as a member of the old school skateboarding gang "The Bones Brigade". He spent several years in the group Jet Black Crayon before releasing his first solo-Single in 1995, entitled "Backintheday." He mixes a variety of jazz, ambient, and hip-hop styles to create a very soulful and chill vibe throughout his followup cds. On his CD "Soul Food Taqueria" he collaborated with both Gresham Taylor and the rapper Lyrics Born to add vocal tracks to several of his creations.

(2) Tommy Guerrero may be better known in the world of skateboarding than music. Born in San Francisco, Guerrero joined the skateboard company Powell Peralta in 1985 and became one of the original members of the legendary "Bones Brigade" team. Always interested in music, Guerrero was a fan of the high-energy punk music that surrounded the early-'80s skate scene. Since then, Guerrero has become an accomplished bassist and guitarist with influences as diverse as John Coltrane, Latin Playboys, and Tortoise. Guerrero released his debut album, Loose Grooves & B**tard Blues, in 1998 on the Galaxia label. To support the record, Guerrero turned to his friends -- skateboarder and bassist Monte Vallier, DJ Gadget, and former Threeo drummer Tim DeGaugh -- to form the band Jet Black Crayon, who toured with Isotope 217 in 1999. With help from Gadget, he released Hoy Yen A**'n in 2000, as well as the solo record A Little Bit of Somethin' on Mo Wax. His warm, soulful music continued on 2004's Soul Food Taqueria, and after the five-song EP Year of the Monkey, Guerrero moved to Quannum, issuing From the Soil to the Soul in 2006. Another record on the Galaxia imprint, Return of the B**tard, followed in 2007. Four years later, Lifeboats and Follies was released on the same imprint and largely featured the same cast (including an appearance by Money Mark). In 2012, Guerrero recorded his seventh solo album No Man's Land which was released in Japan. Two years later, the album would receive worldwide distribution via the Modulor label. ~ Matt Collar, Rovi <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tommy+Guerrero">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.