Tommy Concrete is a musician and author. He was born in Hull, UK but lives in Edinburgh. Tommy Concrete became a solo artist with the industrial metal album We Have Bift Off in 2002. Before that, Tommy Concrete had played in bands since 1989 such as Flib Ginis Dead Chimps,  Warp Spasm,  Cosmic Juggernaut,  Concrete Head,  Zaceus Zinetti,  Shitball,  Dog Muck,  The Cyber Insaniac Surfers & Underhill.

In 2003 Tommy Concrete joined Scottish heavy metal legends  Man of the Hour. Releasing two albums Skull Orchard in 2003 & Destroy the Machines of Slaughter in 2007.  Man of the Hour split in 2009 when guitarist Matt Justice Mguire joined Scottish punk legends  The Exploited. 

2005 saw the formation of the psychedelic doom band  Doomlord. This was alongside Paddy Tobin & Mike Sowerby of progressive rock band  The Last People on Earth. Tommy Concrete & Paddy Tobin had previously played together in the bands  Flib Ginis Dead Chimps,  Warp Spasm,  Cosmic Juggernaut &  Concrete Head. Doomlord was a studio project that released five albums. Vortex 1 in 2005, Futuristic Witchcraft in 2007, The Circus of Sacrifice also in 2007, Atlantis in 2008 and the final album Northern Europe in 2008.

Tommy Concrete started work on the follow up to We Have Bift Off in 2006. A double album, part one consited of 12 songs written prior to We Have Bift Off. These were recorded in 2006 with the Doomlord line up, produced by Paddy Tobin at The Last Studios in Hull. Part two was recorded in 2009 at Room Room studios. Part two was material written since 2006 and was of a progressive black metal album as opposed to the psychedlic stoner rock of part one. Part two was mixed by Stuart Gordon from instrumental doom band Jackal-Headed Guard of the Dead for whom Tommy Concrete played guitar. Jackal-Headed Guard of the Dead were formed in 2008 by Stuart Gordan & Chris Smith of  The Tyrant Lizard Kings and Tommy Concrete. Their debut album, Grimoire was released in 2009. An ep entitled The Sky Has Been Riven And Our Flesh Has Bent Rent in 2010.

In 2009 Tommy Concrete joined  Gareeda as vocalist alongside Stuart Gordon  Jackal-Headed Guard of the Dead, Micheal Brannagh  of Degrassi and Toni Martone of Dick Dangerous & The Love Bastards. Tommy Concrete left  Gareeda in 2011 when he replaced Matt Justice as guitarist for  The Exploited.

Tommy Concrete's debut novel The Wages Of Metal was published in 2010, Tommy Concrete promoted this with a handful of anarchic spoken word performances. The book was a fictonal tale based on his personal experiences of twenty years of life in bands.

Banished From The Mages Guild by Tommy Concrete was released on casette by Wasted State records in 2011. Wasted State Records also re-released the  Shitball albums The Hot Summer Breeze Gives Me The Nuts Of A Wild Boars & Too Many Titles Not Enough Songs. 

In 2012 Matt Justice replaced Tommy Concrete in The Exploited. Tommy Concrete set out straight away t o compete his next book and album as well as a new Jackal-Headed Guard of the Dead album.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tommy+Concrete">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.