Tomorrow's Gift (along with similar bands, Frumpy and Joy Unlimited) originally formed as a blues and soul-rock band evolving by the end of the '60s into progressive rock, but still remind faithful to their roots. The line up consisted of Ellen Meyer (Vocals) Carlo Karges (guitar, percussion), Manfred Rurup (organ), Wolfgang Trescher (flute), Bernd Kiefer (bass) and Olaf Casalich (drums). Casalich was later replaced by Gerd Paetzke. In 1970 the young band (three members were still teenagers) set out to release their debt double vinyl. As expected the production yielded a rough unpolished edge giving the album the typical vintage progressive sound. The album Features an abundance of guitars, organ, flute and drum solos accompanied by Meyer's vocals which have been likened to Janis Joplin. Most believe this album would have proved stronger if edited onto just a single disc! 

After their self titled effort the band had split in 1971. It was now down to Manfred Rurup and Bernd Kiefer the keep the flame lit. Recruiting "Zabba" Linder (drums) the band pushed forward as a three piece, going on to release 'Goodbye Future' (1972). The sound of the band had totally changed, with a more technical edge and much improved sound production. They took a more Jazz mind into the studio resulting in a mainly instrumental Jazz-rock album, focusing on the keen interplay between keyboard and bass. The overall sound was quite varied: incorporating the lighter Canterbury-jazz sound with an almost Zappa-esque humour. 

This was to be the last record under the name Tomorrow's Gift. In 1973, guitarist Uli Trepte (previously of Guru Guru) joined, only to quit just half a year later and was replaced promptly by sax and clarinet player Norbert Jacobsen. The band now changed their name to Release Music Orchestra under which name they released five records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tomorrow%27s+Gift">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.