Combining never ending songs and a loud, relentless sound with low-end heaviness, wild psychedelic trips and doomrockin' riffs, Toner Low are one of a kind to roam the green fields of Leiden, Holland. In the first four years since their formation in 1998 these doomstoners released a couple of promos, played gigs in Holland and Belgium (2000) with among others Karma To Burn (USA), Isis, Candybar Planet and Lawn and parted with two bandmembers.

Originally a band with five musicians, the line-up was reduced to a three-piece minimum in August 2002: Deef (bass/vocals), Daan (guitar) and Jack (drums). After releasing songs on a split 7" with Fal-Tor-Voh (pre-Plutonium Nyborg) and on the "Motor Rock Volume 1" compilation (Motorwolf Records), Toner Low started recordings for their first album in 2004. Shows are done in Holland, Germany (2003, 2004) and Luxemburg (2004).

In June 2005 the bandmembers released their first CD on their DIY-label Roadkill Rekordz. The album got great reviews in magazines and on websites, and was chosen "Revelation of 2005" by the Perkele Stonersite. In 2006 a split with Abe Diddy & The Krautboys has been released. Afterwards Toner Low played the "Roadburn Festival" and gigs in a.o. Sweden, Denmark, Germany, France, Austria, Italy and the UK. 

Shortly after their UK-trip bassplayer/vocalist Deef left in November 2007. In December bassplayer Miranda, who was a member from '98 to '99, replaced him and Toner Low started working on songs for their second album. In April/May some gigs were done. The new songs were recorded during Summer/Autumn. In July Toner Low played the "Stoned From The Underground Festival" in Germany. The second album, simply called II, got released late November 2008 on vinyl and CD. In December Toner Low toured Germany, Austria and Croatia.

The year 2009 saw the band playing gigs and doing short tours in France, Germany, Belgium, Norway, Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands. During 2010 Toner Low did some more touring in Europe and played a.o. the Stoned Hand Of Doom Festival in Rome, Italy, supporting UK-doomlegend Electric Wizard.

In 2013 the trio released its third album III on LP, CD and MC. This album was also made available through Bandcamp. At the releaseparty held at their hometown venue the LVC former singer/bass player Deef joined the band once more (albeit from the dj-booth) to provide guest vocals on a live rendition of the track 'Evil Machinery On The Rise' from the bands debut album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Toner+Low">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.