Classic Hip Hop inspired producer "Tone Spliff" from Utica NY, has made his mark in the underground hip hop community.
Currently he is promoting his new compilation "Authentic" featuring Tizz, Krumbsnatcha, Copywrite, Murdoc, King Dom, Baby Blak, Apathy, Royce Da 5'9, Special Teamz (Edo G, Jaysaun, Slaine), Born Talent, King Magnetic, Rise, Irealz, Planet Asia, Shabaam Sahdeeq, Jukstapose, Chaundon, Braille, Wordsworth, Okwerdz, Skyzoo & Pace Won.

Songs from the compilation have received airplay on radio stations across the United States and overseas, and have been featured on Sirius Radio Hip Hop Nation Channel 40 multiple times. A video was released for "Do It For You/Respect Is Due" that has been featured on the popular "onsmash.com" website. Its received the most airplay on the 10 year strong "Halftime Show" on WNYU hosted by Dj Eclipse and DJ Skizz.

You may of also heard Tone Spliff on LA's Finest vinyl EP, with Tone's production on "Fresh Air" featuring grammy nominated Planet Asia. The vinyl was sold in stores worldwide, including the world famous Fat Beats, and was mentioned in XLR8R magazine.

In 2001, Tone started off originally rapping in a local hip hop group "Chemically Imbalanced Crew" or "C.I.C." The group went on several years, until they eventually split up due to creative differences. As a result, "Mind Write Music" was formed, consisting of Shalom Shazam (RIP), Mr Mcfeely, Rezenebe, Tizz & Tone Spliff. Tone is also a member of the production team "Green People Productions" with DJ Joe Dro & Big Jim.

Tone was the tour dj for "The Waterproof Tour" with rappers Copywrite & Vast Aire in 2007. The 13 city tour hit NYC, Boston, Chicago, Minnesota, Salt Lake City, El Paso, Los Angeles other big cities in the U.S. During the tour he shared the stage with Sean Price, Sugarhill Gang, King Magnetic, Immortal Technique, Poison Pen, C Rayz Walz and more.

Currently working on his next "untitled" compilation that features more heavyweight artists, the album is due out late 2010/2011. Tone continues to work a 9-5 job and seeks a lifestyle in music. Clearly, he won't stop until he reaches success. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tone+Spliff">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.