Tongue is the name of more than one artist.

1) TONGUE (Los Angeles, California)
2) Belgian band from Brussels
3) Czech deathrock band
4) Rock band from Belgrade,Serbia
5) Shoegaze band from Syracuse, NY
6) Rock band from Beijing, China
7) A Black Metal band from Bielefeld, Germany

1) TONGUE (Los Angeles, California). Tongue’s hardcore is like tweaking a thin piece of metal - the faster it moves, the more it heats up and at the end it snaps in half with a sense of accomplishment in breakage. The group released two full length albums before disappearing into thin air…

2) Belgian band from Brussels that released one album, in 2000: [a]venture. They released some extra tracks on their website, but it has seized to exist and the band has stopped all activities, although they had a record deal for 3 albums with the Belgian label Magnet Records.

3) Czech deathrock band with a goth/postpunk/occult attitude. Debut EP “At the Beginning” was realeased at the renowned netlabel Zorch Factory Records. 

4) TONGUE is a power rock trio from Belgrade, Serbia. The band started in 2010 as a solo project of Vladimir Bizic right after the demise of his long-running hardcorepunk entity Lets Grow that he co-founded in 2001. Tongue's roots date back to the band called Wishingwell (2004) where Bizic had vocal duties and played together with his late brother Pavkovic Srdjan (1978 - 2005) - guitar, Stevan Cirovic (Jaibo!, Lets Grow, VVhile) - drums, Sinisa Videkanic (Ex-Lets Grow) - bass and Nemanja Gvozdenovic - lead guitar. Wishingwell didn't make any record or live appearance due to a death of Srdjan in 2005. Tongue's music has influences of punk rock, hard rock, heavy metal and everything in between but the band is open for experimenting with the other genres as well.

http://tongue.bandcamp.com/
http://www.facebook.com/tonguemusic

5) Female fronted shoegaze band from Syracuse, NY. Released two 7" singles in 1994 on Mason Ring Records, the second of which was produced by Dave Fridmann, and also released in France by the Orgasm label. 

6)Tongue(in Chinese 舌头) is a Chinese rock band.

7) Tongue is a German Black Metal band from Bielefeld. 

Discography:
"Tongue" - 01.12.2015

http://tonguebm.bandcamp.de
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tongue">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.