There is more than artist with this name:

1) Denmark's TONGUES debuted in 2014 under the flag of I, Voidhanger Records with “Thelésis Ignis”, a portentous 35-minute long EP which earned them the praises from the underground metal aficionados. Apparently swallowed by the shadows right after that promising release, TONGUES have simply kept a low profile and concentrated for 3 long years on the second chapter of their doomed spiritual journey. A journey that now spawns “Hreilia”, a new and exciting example of TONGUES' audacious synthesis of black, death and doom metal, propelled by fiery riffs, magnetic melodies and mystical atmospheres.

Enshrouded like its predecessor in an esoteric dark aura and graced by an apocalyptic cover painting by vocalist A. Lovmand, “Hreilia” delves even deeper into the realms of subconscious. “The underlying concept of the album was inspired by a dream; that's where the word Hreilia comes from,” confirms drummer and lyricist C. Qvortrup. “That word held a significant spiritual value within the context of that dream. It symbolised a profound spiritual disappointment... a nightmare.”

TONGUES' pessimistic approach to the new album is quite evident even during its most aggressive moments, when the inner fire that characterized the previous EP bursts out nervously from the articulated structures of “Grove Of Mithridate” and “Theophagous Wounds Of Earth”, two examples of the band's trademark style, hanging in the balance between utmost aggression and psychedelic meditation. As the album progresses, the melodies become slowly - yet steadily - more depressive and defeated, till when TONGUES' ferocious inner struggle concludes and gives way to sadness and disillusionment.

TONGUES is:
T. Lovmand - Guitars and bass
A. Lovmand - Vocals, additional guitars, synth, and saranji
C. Qvortrup - Drums, lyrics, and backing vocals 

https://i-voidhangerrecords.bandcamp.com/album/hreilia

2) The solo project by Kevin, of Galaga: The Movie: www.myspace.com/tonguesmusic

3) Tongues consists of well-established Chicago musicians from hard-rock bands of legend like Apocalypse Hoboken (Todd Paglialong– Vocals; Andy Peterson – Drums), Joan of Arc (Erik Bocek – Bass), American Draft (Sean Shipley – Lead Guitar), Veterans (Francis Gilbert – Lead Guitar), Mexican Cheerleader, The House That Gloria Vanderbilt, Ghosts & Vodka, and at least a dozen more now defunct touring outfits. This meeting of skilled veterans will unleash their self-titled debut in June 2008 as the premier release for the Coach House Collective label. 

In a rhythmic marriage of often fast-paced and precisely arranged melancholy, combined with dueling, yet harmoniously symbiotic guitar ecstasy, this tune-laden powerhouse lay the construct for the ever-evolving vocalist Todd Paglialong (aka Mr. Todd Pott) to redefine the definition of “pop sensibilities”. With a varied and odd music history under their delicious licorice whip belts, the often sardonic and provocative Tongues lovingly bring the intensity of youth’s bad choices with the rancor and wisdom of an adult’s hard-earned prerogative to stop being a pussy. Delivering 12 original songs in 45 minutes plus change, Tongues cuts to the quick and never stops swinging. 

"Tongues ease the sleaze with aural sex appeal and riffs for days. While I was typing this Tongues just wrote another song. Make your crotch wet. Join the order. Tongues is for loverzzz. And zoophiliacs. Remember when grunge was a thing people talked about? So do they. For fans of Roxy Music and Kyuss." – The Continental (Issue 3

Your Starting Lineup: 

Todd Paglialong rode the rails as a hobo for three years before settling down with an adopted family in the suburbs. You may have seen him in bands like Apocalypse Hoboken, The Traitors, The Vicelords, The House That Gloria Vanderbilt, or he may have even sold you drugs once. 

Andy Peterson has recently come down from the trees and drinks more often than he should. You may have seen him in bands like Apocalypse Hoboken, Mexican Cheerleader, or as part of the March of Dimes parade. He thinks he's smarter than everyone. 

Erik Bocek always has an interesting haircut and he's fragrant like a convenience store. You may have seen him in bands like An Automotive, Ghosts & Vodka, Joan of Arc, Tetsuo, and about 50 others. At least he says nice things about you. 

Frank G is a renaissance man-mountain of guitar riffage; a bon vivant for whom the parts can't be written fast enough. Though he is originally from Chicago, he has spent much time on both coasts with various bands such as Dojo, Scotchberg, Double Meat, Mongrel, et al. He also does session work for 5.1 Music Inc and others. 

Sean Shipley was born on a commune in Summertown, TN, destined for a meandering life of utter inconsequence. A vagabond musician writing and performing music for the past 15 years, Sean currently resides in Chicago and can be seen performing with a variety of acts including Tongues and American Draft. 

You should come see us sometime. We'll put a hump on a camel's back.

More Info :
http://www.myspace.com/storybookfuneralband

4) TONGUES are a hardcore band from Milan, Italy. http://tonguestheband.bandcamp.com/
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tongues">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.