Tony Sunshine (born Antonio Cruz in the Bronx, New York) is an R&B singer of Puerto Rican descent, famous for singing on a good number of Terror Squad's songs. He sang on tracks such as Cuban Link's Still Telling Lies, Fat Joe's All I Need and Big Pun's 100%. He released his own single on Jive Records titled: "Oh My God" featuring P. Diddy and Dirtbag in 2004. Tony Sunshine has new album set for this spring.

Raised in the Bronx, Tony was taken in at the age of 13 by Fat Joe (then known as Joey Crack) and Big Pun, who attempted to secure a recording contract for the teen. He took the name Tony Sunshine, and eventually became a member of the Terror Squad. In 2000, mentor Big Pun died suddenly of a heart attack, after which point Tony and Fat Joe began recording together in earnest. Tony has collaborated with R. Kelly, Ginuwine, Fabolous and Capone-N-Noreaga.

Tony Sunshine has sung vocals for Big Pun on songs like 100%, Laughin at You & My D*ck. He has also appeared on some of Fat Joe's songs including TS Piece & All I need. Terror Squad's debut album entitled 'Terror Squad' was released in 1999, Tony Sunshine appears on several songs on that album also.

Fat Joe was able to finalize a record deal for Tony in 2005 with Epic and Sony BMG. Tony Sunshine was released from Sony BMG in May, 2006 and was signed to Urban Box Office. In November 2006, UBO folded, leaving the future of Tony Sunshine's 2007 debut release uncertain. Tony released She's Like The Wind, that featured fellow New York artist Lumidee, there is an English version and a Spanglish version.

Tony Sunshine finally leaves Terror Squad as of June, 2008. Stated on a myspace blog:

"Everybody keeps asking me why I am no longer down with the Terror Squad. To answer everyone's question, let me start by saying that there is no beef. I left Fat Joe's camp like a gentlemen. I wish him and his family nothing but the best. But it was time for Tony Sunshine to stand on his own two feet and become a leader of his own movement.


So now I'm a free agent. But I recently signed a management deal with Darrin "Dee" Dean. The C.E.O. of Ruff Ryders Entertainment. And the rest is about to become history. I have a new road manager, d.j., street team, etc. So expect to see a new and improved Tony Sunshine for 2008. This is going to be my year. Not my summer! Dee has me currently working in the studio with producers like Swizz Beats & Neo Da Matrix. So expect new hot music from Tony Sunshine very soon. I need my fans to understand that I was going through a lot of industry bullshit. And that is the reason you have not heard new music from Tony Sunshine. But it is "FINALLY" over. And I "FINALLY" got the clearance to do me. And that's exactly what I'm going to do." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tony+Sunshine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.