Tony Terry is an R&B/new jack swing singer from Washington, DC. Throughout the beginning of his career, Terry landed backup singing jobs for the R&B/pop group Sweet Sensation and hip-hop group The Boogie Boys. In 1987, he signed a record deal with Epic/CBS Records. Terry's first single, "She's Fly", was released the same year, and peaked at number 10 on Billboard's R&B Singles chart. Forever Yours, Terry's debut album for Epic, was released in 1988, and reached the Top 30 of Billboard's R&B albums chart. The follow-up to "She's Fly", "Lovey Dovey", hit number-four on the R&B charts. It was his biggest hit. The single "Forever Yours" was a modest hit, reaching the R&B Top 20.

Terry's second album, a self-titled release, included the single "With You", which was a Top 20 hit on Billboard's pop chart as well as the R&B chart. "Everlasting Love", a number-six R&B hit as was "With You", was also successful. After leaving Epic, Terry moved over to Virgin Records. His debut album for the label was 1994's Heart Of A Man. The album was not as successful as this previous albums. The about peaked at #47 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. The singles "When A Man Criess" and "Heart Of A Man" became moderate hits.  The following year, Terry contributed background vocals to a track on Yolanda Adams's album More Than A Melody. As the years went by, Terry began to develop his acting talents, landing roles in stage plays.

Tony Terry has been wooing his fans all over the country for over a decade. His smooth enchanting melodies have captured the hearts of female and male patrons alike. His style transcends age groups and his multi-selling hits, “She’s Fly,” “Lovey, Dovey,” “Forever Yours,” “Everlasting Love,” “Head Over Heels,” “When A Man Cries" and the now classic – “With You" to name a few, continue to sell, and have become timeless classics. In recent years he has performed live with Jodeci, Boyz II Men, Gladys Knight, Celine Dion, Stevie Wonder and is currently touring with Roberta Flack. Tony has released four albums (Forever Yours, Tony Terry, The Heart of a Man, and My Best.)

He has performed on the soundtracks to: Gladiator starring Cuba Gooding, Jr., Tap starring Gregory Hines and King's Ransom starring Anthony Anderson. Tony Terry has appeared on nearly every television program featuring music, usually more than once. In 1991, Tony earned two “Soul Train Music Awards” nominations: Artist of the Year and Single of the Year for “With You.” His accomplishments in the recording studio are complimented by a strong charisma on stage and on video. Terry released his most recent album, "Changed" in 2006. The album peaked at #54 on the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tony+Terry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.