Tooth is the name of at least four separate groups:

1. An American stoner metal band from Durham, NC

Bandcamp

Tooth were a five-piece metal band from Durham, NC, USA. Formed in early 2006, they released their debut EP, Animality, on Churchkey Records in December 2007. Their music entangles several metal subgenres, including stoner, thrash, sludge, and punk.

2. An Australian dub-influenced largely-instrumental group  that included Kevin Purdy.

3. An Irish alternative rock band.

Tooth were an Irish alternative rock band from Limerick active during the late 1990s/early 2000s. The group consisted of Shane Darcy (drums), Liam Marley (guitar, vocals), Mark O'Connor  (bass, vocals) and Stephen Ryan (guitar). Cian O Siochain originally played bass in the group up to and including the release of 'Some Songs'. Their 'Some Songs' demo was followed in 2000 by the 'That Corporate Emotion' EP. Tooth's sound mixed elements of noise-rock, post-hardcore, grunge, indie, and metal, with a distinctive groove orientation among the many idiosyncrasies that set them apart from other alternative outfits. The band garnered a loyal following within Ireland but disbanded not long after the release of 'That Corporate Emotion'.

Terrorizer, Issue 84, November 2000
TOOTH
'That Corporate Emotion EP'
Anxious, spiky art-rock from Ireland. You can hear traces of Kerbdog if you're really looking for it, if only in Liam Marley's sharp, nasal voice, but Tooth cast more than an odd glance across the water, taking on board Sonic Youth's de-tuned scree, some muscular hardcore riffs that bands like Rodan would have been proud of, and even some Alice In Chains-style half-tone vocal phrasing. It all gels, though, into something quite startling, like being caught up in a cubist storm.

4. A post-hardcore band from Gernika, Basque Country. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tooth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.