The classic line up of Toranaga (Andy Mitchell, Steve todd, Andy Burton, Mark Duffy) was completed in March 1988 when vocalist Mark Duffy joined the band after replying to an ad in Kerrang magazine. The band had already secured a record deal with Peaceville Records at that time and vocalist Mark Duffy suggested getting Kev Ridley to produce the album, having previously worked with him on his last band ’Millennium’. The songs were yet to be completed and Duffy added the lyrics to the massive riffs of their debut ’Bastard Ballads’. 
After the album was released the band started to recieve great reviews for the album and their live shows. Interest was also shown by BBC Radio 1 Rock Show who invited them in to record a session for the legendary Tommy Vance ’Friday Rock Show’. This generated further interest from other record labels having only signed a one album deal with Peaceville, and in September 1989 signed to Chrysalis Records. They released their full length album ’God’s Gift’ in 1990. The first song from the album, ’The Shrine’, was released on video. 

Again the band had great reviews for the album and toured extensivley in Euroupe to promote it.

Cracks began to show by the end of 1990 and into 1991 and the band became increasingly unhappy with Chrysalis. With other problems surrounding the band, Toranaga parted company with Chrysalis Records by the end of 1991.

Mark Duffy and Andy Burton left the band in early 1992. Toranaga continued throughout the 90’s with various vocalists and bass players settling with Sean Dooley who became their permanent bassist. Vocalist Mark Duffy re-joined the band in 2001 and with Andy Mitchell, Steve Todd and Sean Dooley, set about writing and demoing songs along with songs written over a number of years. By the end of 2001, Steve Todd decided to leave the band and after trying out a number of drummers over a 2 year period, found James Garbett in 2003. In september of 2004 Toranaga started recording thier latest album. Sadly only seven incomplete songs were recorded due to James Garbett leaving the band to go to music college in London. Again the band searched for a drummer with no luck. Soon after Andy Mitchell announced he was emigrating to Australlia, thus leaving the album unreleased. Andy Mitchell emigrated in June 2006.

"Andy Mitchell is the best guitarist i’ve ever worked with. A total riff master" says Duffy. Hail the King.

Look out for unreleased tracks and demos on this website in the near future.

Andy Mitchell is currently forming a new line-up of Toranaga based in Australia. Mark Duffy has formed a new band called FACE THE UNKNOWN based in Teesside, England. 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Toranaga">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.