Torben Enevoldsen began playing guitar in the early 1980s, influenced by such all-time greats as Tony Iommi, Richie Blackmore, and Edward Van Halen. But it wasn't until 1990 when he got serious, realizing that practice makes perfect. More influenced by Yngwie Malmsteen and other contemporary "shredders," Torben took on the task of practicing every single day. Working on his picking and improvisational skills, he found that playing became easier and more fun in the process. Performing with various bands in Denmark gave Torben the necessary experience of working with other people as well as the essential feel of playing live.

Meanwhile, experimentation at home with a 4-track tape recorder, a drum machine and a bass, gave birth to Torben's unique compositional style. Hard rock instrumentals came to him almost effortlessly, and, already a big fan of this musical style, his passion grew even stronger. Torben played the first completed tracks for his very close friend, Torben Lysholm, a studio engineer. Lysholm was very excited by what he heard and invited Torben to come to the studio to record a few tracks, which resulted in the release of the demo CD called, "Just In Case."

In July 1997, Torben went back to the studio to record another nine tracks, two of which included vocals. He was joined in Denmark's "Hot Sound Recording Studio" by Carsten Neumann and Christian Rajkai on bass, Kenny Lübcke on vocals and Torben Lysholm, who did the engineering, programming and backing vocals. Soon, a master tape, including the demo tracks in a new mix, was completed. 


Torben Enevoldsen signed an agreement with Unigreen International in Holland who released "Guitarisma" on their ROXON label in December 1998.

In May 2000, Torben returned to the studio to record his second album "Heavy Persuasion". Assisted by Flemming Hansen on bass and Mickey Hurricane on drums, the final production comprises ten hard rock/heavy/progressive instrumentals exclusively. The album was recorded and mixed in ”Aabenraa Studiet” in Denmark by Jacob Hansen and produced by Torben Enevoldsen. Lion Music released the album in October 2000. 

In the beginning of 2001, Torben needed a change of pace and now wanted to write an all vocal album. The band project were to be called SECTION A and apart from Enevoldsen himself, the band would feature Andy Engberg (Lion’s Share) on vocals and Andreas Lill (Vanden Plas) on drums. The debut album called “The Seventh Sign” was released by Lion Music and Marquee/Avalon in June 2003 and features guest performances by Derek Sherinian (Planet X, Dream Theater) and Günter Werno (Vanden Plas, Angra). 

Right after completing the material for the second Section A album, Torben started composing material for his third instrumental album "Flying Solo". The album was written, recorded and mixed by Enevoldsen himself at his own studio "The Lab", and released by Lion Music on May 20th, 2005.

In early 2005, Torben started writing material for a brand new project. The idea was to get back to basics and compose some fairly basic hard rock/metal songs. Mats Levén (At Vance, ex-Malmsteen) did the vocals and Daniel Flores (Mind's Eye, Tears Of Anger) the drums. The album was mixed and mastered by Tommy Hansen and released in April 2006 by MTM Music and Gencross.

The second SECTION A album, "Parallel Lives", was finally released in February 2006, and features new drummer Johan Koleberg (ex-Lion's Share) as well as guest appearances by bassist Pontus Egberg (ex-Lion's Share) and Mats Olausson (ex-Malmsteen), who did all the keyboard solos. 

Torben is right now very busy working on yet another new album. Enevoldsen is writing all the music and Peter Sundell (Ex-Grand Illusion, Northern Light) is doing the vocals. The style will be very melodic hard rock, but obviously, with a touch of prog and metal... 

Currently holding endorsements with Ibanez Guitars, Soldano Custom Amplification and Elixir Strings, Enevoldsen continues to write music, perfect his guitar skills and work toward making his name a household word to fans of solid rock guitar.

Source: http://www.torbenenevoldsen.com/home.htm (20.09.2008 - 14:12)
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Torben+Enevoldsen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.