Torche is a band from Miami, Florida, United States. They play a distinctive style of stoner/ sludge metal that they categorize as ''stoner pop''.

The group was formed in 2004 by Steve Brooks (ex-Floor), Juan Montoya (ex-Cavity, ex-Ed Matus' Struggle), Jonathan Nuñez and Rick Smith (who also play in the grindcore band Shitstorm). According to MTracks.com: "Their music has a unique, hard-hitting sound that provokes a wide range of emotions, and they have a large fan base throughout the world." They have toured with Mogwai, Isis, Pelican, Black Cobra, Baroness, Jesu, The Sword, Stinking Lizaveta, Harvey Milk and Boris. Steve Brooks, however, has said that they don't consider themselves a metal band. In describing the band's sound, Smith said in an interview: "To me it's mostly a combination of everything we listen to collectively as a band. We take what we like from what we grew up on and use it as creatively as we can. I think the meshing of different sounds comes naturally just because we all have different musical backgrounds yet have a ton of common interests." In terms of touring, Brooks said Torche is getting more of a young crowd.

On April 8, 2008, the band released their second full-length, entitled Meanderthal. It was produced by Kurt Ballou (Converge, Genghis Tron). It was met with critical acclaim, including that from Decibel Magazine who ranked Meanderthal #1 on their list of the Top 40 Extreme Albums of 2008 as well as an 8.2/10 by Pitchfork Media. In an interview, Brooks said the band themselves came up with the album's concept in terms of artwork and packaging. Brooks has also said that in terms of writing material, the band focuses on what they like, rather than worrying about a "backlash" from their fans.

In late 2008 Juan Montoya left the band, a move credited to musical differences. Steve Brooks said "He is an amazing guitarist, but we are just not on the same page... but Torche will still carry on as a 3 piece band".

Torche has fulfilled this statement by embarking on several tours, including one with the band dredg and another with a reunited Harvey Milk.

In 2010 the band started touring with a temporary second guitar player, Max Johnston of the Downhome Southernaires before finding a permanent replacement in Riddle Of Steel and Tilts guitarist and frontman Andrew Elstner. The band is now a 4 piece once again.

Current lineup:

Steve Brooks - guitar, vocals;
Jonathan Nuñez - bass guitar;
Rick Smith - drums;
Andrew Elstner - guitar, vocals.

Former members:

Juan Montoya - guitars.

http://www.torchemusic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Torche">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.