A five-piece black metal band from Dallas, Texas. They released one album, called Sigils of the Ancient Ones, almost a decade ago. Currently their line-up is incomplete and they are actively looking for a vocalist.Torment Defined rose from the depths in 1993 from the musical imagination of creator and founder Shane Underwood, with Todd Northcutt, Jamey Spears & Mike Sarap, and the songs too were born the band found itself swiftly rising in rank with the Dallas Metal Scene. In 1993 the first demo was recorded, "Promo '93".The demo delivers three brutal songs,demanding to be heard. Chad Thompson joined as vocalist and a second demo "Abaddon Comes" was cut and offered in 1994. The ears did hear,and Torment Defined began performing with acts like Cannibal Corpse, Pyrexia, and Sinister, as well as headlining several shows of their own in the Dallas Texas and the Oklahoma area.

The time came to create the first full-length album, and it was also time for Torment Defined to change as well. In 1996 the manifestation of a new line-up ensued. New members, Trey Hennen, Leif Helton, Jason Adams, Steve Bruce, & Jason "Hans" Thompson, along with founder Shane Underwood, self-produced "Sigils of the Ancient Ones" in 1999 with a limited release in 2000. The new album procured several headlining shows throughout Dallas Fort Worth. Torment Defined has also shared the stage with bands like Deicide, Dying Fetus.The Dallas Grindcore Festival was killer. They performed with acts such as Prophecy and Devourment. The album of 1999 "Sigils of the Ancient Ones" offered a new breed of Death and Black Metal to fans. Torment Defined incorporates quick brutal compositions combined with melodic, flowing orchestral pieces.Through the intensity and intricate lurkings in the darkness of our minds, only to bring them forward, revealing at last what we crave, a perfect symbiosis of PURE EVIL METAL™! Torment Defined has created intensity and atmosphere, fans of both genres can revere.

To date Torment Defined is currently rehearsing and in the works for the next full release, Entitled "Invading The Tower of Catastrophe." This follow-up album is sure to reside in the same superior spirit as the previous releases! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/TORMENT+DEFINED">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.