Torrnicator was a thrash/heavy metal band from Kielce, Poland that played between 1997 and late 2000. An EP entitled "Bloody Butterfly" (1999/2000) is their only professionally recorded material. It contains 4 tracks which give a good representation of the band's style at that moment. However, being higschool teenagers (all born in 1982) who were still learning and developing their skills and musical preferences, Torrnicator soon turned to slightly more extreme genres. At the moment of dissolving the band in Autumn 2000 its music could be described as technical-thrash-death-metal-to-be-soon :)

Torrnicator originated from the simple, internal need of producing whatever that sounds fine, as a couple of highschool students started rehearsals in basements and garages. Most of the basic members were studying or had finished musical studies playing various instruments. Rock and roll music, however, had to be learnt from the very basics, as none of the classic rock tools were used proficiently then. At first the band was a trio including Wojtek Malewicz (bass guitar), Łukasz Zamaryka (drums) and Maciek Rączka (guitars and vocals). Malewicz soon met Michał Bednarz, who called himself a guitarist and wanted to join the band. Having some great guitar gear, similar musical preferences and a lot to say he was accepted immediately and the band turned into a quartet. The problem at the time was band's inconsistent style and, in fact, lack of skills, which made them play whatever seemed nice and would attract listeners. One day, having problems with a place to play really loudly, they found a nice rehearsal room that was maintained by Tomek Detko, a student that was not only the same age, but owned a nice set of drums:) His skills and musical taste wouldn't have been tested if the rythm section hadn't come late over an hour one day. He then sat and played all their songs at once, having no problems with it. Bednarz and Rączka decided that Zamaryka should be replaced with Detko and Malewicz must be changed to someone a lot more talkative and relaxed... So it was. The very next rehearsal involved Detko behind the drum set and Marcin Piotrowski (an old friend of Raczka and Bednarz) playing bass guitar. 
Their music started to sound better as they chose heavy/thrash metal route to follow. Unlike other "kinder-metal" bands they played hardly any covers trying to compose as much as they could. The band moved on, but Piotrowski didn't. He was rather an entertainer and a good friend, than a bassist, so it had become obvious that he should be removed. He, though, once brought a proposition of calling the band "Forrnicator", which was an idea taken from a comic book, but mis-spelled it saying "Torrnicator", which was accepted immediately. His place was taken by Tomek Mysior, a friend of Detko, a skilled and productive bassist. This was the final adjustment and, as history shows, both good and bad:) 

The band bloomed, turning to metal-to-be ensemble. They performed quite a lot, concerning those years' possibilities of Kielce, which isn't neither a big city, nor a good place to sound heavily, but they proved their being an efficient and attractive teenager band for their long-haired peers. 
Their musical style grew simultanously with their skills. ...and with Bednarz's preferences, as he started to become a leader, showing both short and long-term aims for them, suggesting possible cover songs and organinising gigs. But it worked. 

Until recording "Bloody Butterfly" EP they had already a several concerts given and a number of peer-fans. The decision to record the original material in a proffessional studio (Radio Kielce) was an important one, cause really few bands did that then. It was simply expensive and home recording possibilities weren't accesible at all. The recording took about 12 hours on 18th December 1999 and was engineered by a professional producer Tomasz Tomborski. He, indeed, was a Pro, but claimed that had never heard Slayer in his life... The recording was quite well done, concerning time limitations and teenager-like skills of the band members, but made quite an impression then. 
 
Immediately after having it recorded, the band was both encouraged and aware of their skills' inefficiency, so they intensified rehearsals, worked a lot and performed several times in Spring. They started to be recognized by the audience and had quite a lot of applauze in Kielce. Beginning 2000 they decided to play more technically and aggresively to become a real metal band:) 

During the Summer of 2000 they composed death-metal-influenced pieces that, unfortunately, were not to be played live even once. In September Detko and Mysior complained on the guitarists' heavy domination and style tyranny and decided to sustain their band membership. Torrnicator then was called a commonwealth that cannot be continued without full agreement of its members and was left discontinued.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Torrnicator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.