"TORTURED CONSCIENCE perform indetikit Deicide-style death metal straight out of 1995 on EVERY KNEE SHALL BOW [8], a genuinely crushing album that is all the more remarkable because the band are pushing that bizarre product, Christian extreme metal. Lines like "The apologists through time test the Scriptures for the facts" sound weird delivered in a custard-gargling bellow, but you know what? It works." - Metal Hammer, 8 out of 10

From S.O.D.:

TORTURED CONSCIENCE

Every Knee Shall Bow

Bombworks Records

8 Skulls

Hailing from San Francisco, Tortured Conscience makes its debut with Every Knee Shall Bow. Death Metal fans will start banging from the get-go, as these dudes throw down some serious Grindcore-tainted fare that is equal parts groove and fury. Drummer John Gotelli channels some righteous Voodoo Loa, his blasters going full bore while the snare-cymbal rips are relentless. Jeff Lenormand tackles all the stringed instruments. His bass rumbles along at a frenetic pace and his guitars are downtuned but crunchy. The basic rhythms rely on a thunderous sound, a whirlwind of dissonance upon which Lenormand sets down some melodic solos. Throat Berto Salas uses an effective growl that sometimes grinds down even lower but never quite approaches pig squeals. Lyrically, these are Christian dudes to the bone, which in this day and age makes them even more seditious than their Satanic counterparts. Some may scorn the word - or the WORD - but the lyrics never get in the way of the Grind. Fans of Grinding Death Metal will definitely dig this one. (OR)

OUR STORY:

Long story short - Jeff, who was in the now defunct secular grindcore band VULGAR PIGEONS (www.myspace.com/vulgarpigeons) asked his fellow Pigeon John if he would drum on Jeff's Christian death metal project, Tortured Conscience. Berto, having previous knowledge of VULGAR PIGEONS and himself a guitarist in a grindcore band named IGNIT (www.myspace.com/ignitband), volunteered his vocals for the band.

IF YOU WANT T-SHIRTS AND WHATNOT QUICKSTYLE, GO TO http://www.cafepress.com/ShopTC

TO ANY HONEST SKEPTIC WHO WANTS TO WRITE: I'm (Jeff) more than willing to talk with you if you're an intellectually honest person and are civil and polite. (And the ability to use Spell Check and to be pithy would be helpful, too.) But if you just want to spew childish banter or feel the need to curse every other word or call names, don't bother; I wont respond to you. This is grown up time and if you want to play games, I suggest you sit at the kid's table and share with the other children about how "evil and metal" you are.

"Christianity is not something to be shoved down your throat or forced on you. You have your life to live and I have mine. All I can do is tell you what I have learned and experienced. After that, what you do with Christ is your decision." -Josh McDowell

"If he [the Bible critic] tells me that something in a Gospel is legend or romance, I want to know how many legends and romances he has read, how well his palate is trained in detecting them by the flavour, not how many years he has spent on that Gospel...I have been reading poems, romances, vision-literature, legends, myths all my life. I know what they are like. I know that not one of them is like this." - C.S. Lewis (professor of medieval and Renaissance literature, Cambridge University; author of The Chronicles of Narnia.)

"We are not absurdly arguing that Apologetics has in itself the power to make a man a Christian or to conquer the world to Christ. Only the Spirit of Life can communicate life to a dead soul...But we are arguing that faith is, in all its exercises alike, a form of conviction, and is, therefore, necessarily grounded in evidence." - Benjamin Warfield (Princeton University)

"God saves...apologetics do not." - Josh McDowell

"Faith in the Christian sense goes beyond reason but not against it." - Paul Little

"We cannot pander to a man's intellectual arrogance, but we must cater to his intellectual integrity." - John Stott

TO THE "JESUS MYTHERS" -

"It would be a dangerous error to imagine that the characteristics of an historical religion would be maintained if the Christ of the theologians were divorced from the Jesus of history." - Herbert Butterfield (historian)

"The similar stories such as resurrections, and others, of Greek mythology were not applied to real flesh-and-blood individuals, but instead to non-historical, fictional, mythological characters." - Josh McDowell

"The resurrection provides a basis in historical probability for trying the Christian faith. Granted, the basis is only one of probability, not of certainty, but probability is the sole ground on which finite human beings can make any decision...The moment we enter the realm of fact, we must depend on probability; this may be unfortunate, but it is unavoidable." - John W. Montgomery  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tortured+Conscience">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.