Tortured Soul is a trio of John-Christian Urich (drums, lead vocals - aka Christian Urich), Ethan White (keys & backing vocals) & Jordan Scannella (bass, backing vocals) - which débuted with the single "I Might Do Something Wrong" (Apr 2001, Central Park). 

Following early success with singles - “I Might Do Something Wrong”, "Fall In Love" (2002, Central Park - feat Vince Williams aka DJ Spinna) & “How’s Your Life” (2002) - Tortured Soul formed officially as a live band and booked their first nationwide tour in 2003, often playing in club settings that had never before seen a live act perform dance music so seamlessly. With the devotion of club-goers and DJs cemented as their foundation, TS branched out to live venues and festivals worldwide, from Tennessee’s Bonnaroo, to the UK’s Big Chill, to the Java Jazz Festival in Indonesia. Today, after 5 years of touring and a reputation for a live show nothing short of legendary, they are perhaps the only band in the world that can rock the main room at Fabric (London) at peak hour, as well as a 15,000+ festival crowd at the Montreal International Jazz Festival.

2006 saw the release of their highly lauded first full-length album “Introducing Tortured Soul,” (Purpose Records / R2 Records) which collected their early 12” singles with some new studio gems, and fans around the world have been waiting with baited breath for the sophomore effort ever since. In early 2009 the wait will be over, as Tortured Soul drops their new album “Did You Miss Me” on the band’s own newly formed TSTC Records (Dome UK/Europe, Columbia Japan). Previewed for fans with the 3-song/1-remix “In Transit EP” in Spring ’08, “Did You Miss Me” picks right up where “Introducing” left off. As it winds its way through infectious disco grooves, heartfelt raw soul, and lyrical themes that range from melancholic love, infidelity, and party-going mirth, the album coheres as the group’s most accessibly diverse effort to date.

Former members include Jason Kriveloff, Jonathan Maron (bass - aka Jonathon Maron) & Frankie Romano (guitar).

Their influences inc: Stevie Wonder, Prince, Chic, Donny Hathaway, Bee Gees, Michael Jackson, Kool and the Gang, James Brown & Fela Kuti. 

http://www.torturedsoulmusic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tortured+Soul">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.