Total Eclipse is a psychedelic trance and goa band founded in 1992 by three French musicians, Stéphane Holweck, Serge Souque and Loïc Vanpoucke, with the first remaining the sole member in present day. Their first tracks appeared on a few compilations in 1993, and by 1994 they had a few singles out with Dragonfly Records and T.I.P. Records. Their first full-length album Delta Aquarids and the double CD Violent Relaxation were released in 1995 and 1996 respectively, both with Blue Room Released. They also had a single song, "Psychedelic Terrorist", on the album Tsunami, released in 1999.
History

Musician Stephane Holweck has a rich background in electronic music. He founded the band Juno Reactor with Ben Watkins in 1992. This trance group created music that was featured in the blockbuster movie Matrix Reloaded, including a 13-minute track during a car scene on which Holweck collaborated with Ben Watkins and cinematic composer Don Davis. He has also collaborated with Youth (Killing Joke) since the beginning of his career, as well as other well-known names in the genre, among them Simon Posford (Hallucinogen, Shpongle) and Raja Ram (Shpongle, 1200 Mics) on the album Mystery of the Yeti (1996). Total Eclipse has produced five albums over the course of its career: Delta Aquarids (1995), Violent Relaxation (1996), Access Denied (1999), and Update Files (2004) and tales of the shaman (2010). Holweck continues to perform around the world, playing at events and festivals in Brazil, Hungary, Portugal, Japan, Turkey, France, and the US.

Total Eclipse has remixed tracks by some well-known artists including Anne Clark, Gong, Juno Reactor, Jungle High, 1200 Mics, and Prana. Their extensive discography includes tracks released on Blue Room, TIP, Dragonfly, Twisted Records, Avatar Records, Solstice, Wagram, Sony Music, Phonokol, Eye Q Records, 3D Vision, and Nova Tekk. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Total+Eclipse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.