TOTAL ANAL INFECTION is Indonesian Death Metal band with PornGrind taste, They was formed during early part of 2000 by psycho 666 ( Drums ) and Mr.Sex ( Vokills ). Their idea was to create shit as off! Straight forward damn porno brutal death gore n roll tradition, with no political as shit / Death distractions. By the way 2000 TxAxI had over as offer for demo tape from the Blitar small label FETID records ( Gonorrhoea,Dirty Mind,Dirty Infamous,etc ),which resulted in the collectible demo ep release entitled " Amateur Orgies " added only time before this recording, Guitarist Dr. Gender and Bassist Hyperlust would become an essential members over the next several months and gig. 

Followed 2000 TxAxI were back release TxAxI / Criminal vagina Split splatter, which released by suck label, Hyperblast area records, as same shit,this joining has been rip off shit! TxAxI submit to labels and for the touted really some compilation project ,this session collectively and contained a much more Brutal crust gore n roll with porn theme inspired approach,experiment thus signaling a new direction in the TxAxI freak style During 2001 TxAxI condition not stabilized,is not fine ok!,beside all busy the members made band is vacuum production! Mr. Sex,Dr. Gender left part from the band, as before Hyperlust left first out from shit formation. The remaining originally members, Psycho 666 still existing survive for still spread an sickest desease evil form uncompromise if compared before! Early 2004 gitarist Mr. Sadomasocism, Bassist Violent desease and Drummer FingerDick Joined part in this new formation, psycho 666 change Postion on Alls Vocals and Lead Guitars. 

TxAxI come back with fresh new image with combinated an elemen brutal death-Gore-Crusty-Metallic Hardcore and some Rock n roll style with extermination positive porn lyric described, this easy listening style for you imagine as you hearing the stuff. TxAxI Returned writting new material with this Fuckin formation for the final time, recording eight new track, two Re-recorded of new arrange track from demo " amateur orgies " and two cover version. TxAxI recorded all in DW studio pandaan,JATIM with Doddick and herry SIC of LOST IN CHAOS Mediazine for worked it. This session featured the sickest new image TxAxI with lyrics in the bands native complexity right porn attack as the slaytanic attitude. In conjunction with release of the first album entitled " Abnormalitas Parafilia ( HUBUNGI DOKTER SEGERA! ) ".TxAxI send some promo to several labels for really it. End of shit TxAxI deal with Small label from Bandung-JABAR for release this shit stuff into cassette Lp format exclusive package full colour glossy cover, this release same time TxAxI performed at " Blitar Horregh 5 " september,26-2004, playing as several killer Blitar underground community band! Unfortunely, cause some srious Problem with this label until Fuckin End Deal! Goddamn suck him as shit!! TxAxI Out from their fuckin management, followed that incident, Violent desease has departure from TxAxI with some shittin reason. Several replacements were tested but nothing worked, leaving torsoFuck ( bass ) to coming in this position. 

As shit new formation here is : 

Psycho 666 ( alls Vocals / Lead Guitars ), 
Mr.sadomasocism ( Lead Guitars ), 
TorsoFuck ( Bass ) and 
FingerDick ( Drums ). 

Now TxAxI Still Consist for writting any new material which more killer compared before! Were ready to records again for future time! " Abnormalitas Parafilia ( HUBUNGI DOKTER SEGERA! ) " is an Immediate necro porn gore n roll 666!! TxAxI still exist deliver crushing all METAL POSER GAY!!! With shout a catchy fast choruses, blistering blast beat, ravenously brutal death & Crusty riff and a hint of heavy sound as shit! Extremely Competent production accentuates the power of the band Musickal activism. Porn wet horny concern and parafilia frustation form the basic of the bands lyrical attack. Wallops the listener with a lightening speed an catchy blitzkrieg horny of attitude violence harder and more varied than anything the band has ever created. Emerging from the " Hole " like a wet dildo of mental terror, this TxAxI wrecking an unit annihilate all pretenders and expose the old and tired as were understudies. The band has infused a whiplash - Inducing Groove into the style, producing absolutely relentless songs that detonate with enourmous high energy with blasted in bitch hole! The analytical and the sarcasm delivered with a frightening conviction. TxAxI ensure that their bark is equally as venomous as their bite, destroying anyone and anything in their path asshole. Unfortunelly at December 2007, Fuck toy find new busy activity with his personal living about new family, Fuck toy can't more time for The Band again, and for some gigz we use add bass from guys from Friend bandmathe Imporal for the next Gigz ....... 

The total anal infection new Line up are : 

Psycho 666 ( all fuckin Throat cum / Lead Guitar ) 
Mr. Sadomasocism ( Guitars / bass ) 
Fingerdick ( Drums ) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Total+Anal+Infection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.