Totenburg are a German black metal band founded in 1998 (under the name "Peststurm") by Denis "Herr Rabensang" Schöner (drums), Emperor (guitars and vocals) and Ragnare (bass). Emperor left after recording two demo songs, "Schwarzer Geist" and "Swastika"; then Ragnare switched to guitars and vocals, while Sköll overtook bass duties. After this line-up change, they released a self-titled demo in 1998, after which they changed their name to "Totenburg". Then they released two more LP's: "Weltmacht oder Niedergang" in 1999 and "Winterschlacht" in 2002, without Sköll. 

After these two releases, the whole line-up changed, with vocalist Jens "Asemit" Fröhlich (who's a member of Blood & Honour and leader of the "White Youth" movement), guitarists Eosperaz (from Die Saat), Hagal and bassist Deimos (from Tyskland) entering the band. With this line-up they released their 2004 masterpiece "Pestpogrom", along with two splits. They later recorded a short EP, "Art und Kampf" in 2005, in which a slight pagan metal influence can be heard. The following year they released a split with Austrian black metal band Menneskerhat (of which Herr Rabensang is a member), which saw their return to their old raw black metal style. Their full-length album, "Endzeit", was released in 2009.

Totenburg members are involved in several other projects, such as Epithalium, Absurd and Tyskland. Their line-up has undergone considerable changes throughout the years; notably, it has featured Kanwulf from Nargaroth and Occulta Mors from Moonblood and Nachtfalke (both for very short time and neither being featured in any release).

The word "Totenburg" refers to once planned buildings of great monuments called "Totenburgen" (castles/fortresses of the dead) in memory of fallen German soldiers in the West and in the East after the victory of Germany in World War II.

Compilation appearances:
▶ "Sturm Des Krieges" on Freundeskreis der Heimatverbundenen Germanen (Nebelfee Klangwerke, 2002) 

Facebook <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Totenburg">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.