Tarnovian Rock band Totentanz was established in 2005. In the beginning it was a 3 man band: Erik Bobella (bass), Dariusz Pawlowski (drums), and Dariusz Dural (guitar). In June of 2005 cooperation with Rafal Huszno started (guitar,vocal) (ex-Ottwieler). In that form the still-nameless band met until September. Dariusz Dural left the band and was replaced by Adrian Bogacz (Sunflower). At that point the band took a turn around in sound and work. Their music began to take on specific character and they took on the name Totentanz. In that form in the spring of 2006 they recorded their first five-song demo titled "Niebol", produced by Jaorslaw " Jasiu" Kidawa. Meanwhile Erik Bobella became involved with the legendary punk band KSU. In the fall of 2006 Dariusz Pawlowski left the band and in his place Sebastian Mnich joined (KSU). Afetr 2 1/2 years of cooperation Sebastian Mnich and Erik Bobella left KSU to devote themselves 100% to Totentanz. The band is currently Rafal Huszno (guitar , vocal), Adrian Bogacz (guitar), Erik Bobella (bass), and Sebastian Mnich (drums).

Totentanz, an Okkvlt Elektro from Italy/Norway

Totentanz is a diabolic duo of dj's committed to the harsh sound of electronic apocalypse. Formed in early 2010, Totentanz has already achieved a solid fanbase and respect thanks to their explosive dj sets through Italy. Totentanz shared the stage with big names of the scene like Tyler Noze and Huoratron.

The "Apocalyspe E.P." has been released by Onion Records on December, the 18th on Beatport with exclusive remixes by La Musique D'Ordinateur, Pelussje, Krftkds, Stereoliez and PTN.

Totentanz is not about fresh sounds, hip hop attitude or happiness. Totentanz is displaying darkness, aggressive beats and deathlike feelings.

Totentanz wants to soar as a paradigmatic manifesto for a new way of electronic music. Sounds, images and moods bound to a philosophical and an artistic imagery that ranges from Vienna actionists to existentialism, from the iconoclast scream of black metal to the melancholia of goth landscapes, all coalesced in corrosive pulses of electronic fire. Totentanz is a black mass in music. The soundtrack to the fall of Gods. The symphony at the end of the world.

Totentanz’s background is a path founded on the exploration of the dark territories in human essence: the Kafkaesque metamorphosis, the heart-rending atmosphere of Bathory, the intimacy of Jacques Brel’s verses and the cold drama of Joy Division, the esoteric doctrines, the surrealistic visions shot by David Lynch or written by Jorge Luis Borges. Totentanz is an inverted prism where all these influences converge and generate a unique and dark spectral flow. Because Totentanz is the absence of light.

When Totentanz rises on the dancefloor, darkness shatters like Pandora’s box and overflows in all its sonic violence, displaying its message in a storm of distorted vibrations. From Milan to Sicily, from Venice to Spain, the goal is one: warping the usual electro dj set with a lethal dose of hardcore punk malice in every performance. Totentanz supported Huoratron, Tyler Noze and Tilt, unquestioned hierarchs of current electro nomenklatura and raped the dancefloors with fellows La Musique D’Ordinateur, L.a.s.e.r., Destroy Frequencies and ABCD, a new generation of sonic terrorists.


Totentanz is the dance of the dead. Totentanz ist krieg.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Totentanz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.