There is multiple definitions:

1. Touch Of Eternity is a melodic death metal / doom metal band from Finland, known by its personal way to combine those two genres.


Touch of Eternity was formed on August 2010 by two musicians, who started their studies at Kaustinen's college of music at the same time. Those two, Ollipekka Toimela and Riku Laajala eventually ended up gathering a full line-up and start making something very original. The line-up was quickly filled, due to progressing around the music college areas. Faster than anyone could have thought, had Touch of Eternity composed four tracks full of desolation. The lyrics in those four songs exuded darkness and all the depression you have suffered from day to day all your life. The EP, 'Time's Fleeing Days' was post-poned a couple of times due to technical problems in studio. Also, there was other kind of problems on the way aswell. The bassist, Tuomas, parted ways with the band. Soon after that, Tommi Uusitalo took his place as bassist. The EP was finally released on 19 April 2011. By then, band had composed a load of new songs, and started to produce their next album - 'In The Crossroads Of Life'. The band also started to work on a music video as in a promotional purpose. The first single off 'In The Crossroads Of Life' was released 29.7.2011, it was called 'Lay Me Down'.

2. T.O.E. is an Australian duo that combines ambient/electronic and live guitar sounds with truly dynamic and melodic vocals, producing very powerful ballads. Dance music is also on the agenda.

The band consists of Paulina Caine - the lead vocalist and lyricist, and Satori - the composer who also produces the music. Both of them have an extensive musical experience behind them, and it was their passion for making music with a message, that brought them together to write and perform as a band.

Satori has already produced two albums that have given him recognition in Australia. He has released 'The Touch' in 1995 and later on, "Beyond." that has further enhanced his reputation as one of the best emerging electronic musicians in Australia.

Paulina, who has been singing since she was eight years old, received classical training. However, she then decided to pursue a pop career, performing with a number of original and cover bands around Perth (see: Flame, On the Edge, Chemical Jane and Accents). Paulina's esoteric and extremely expressive voice, combined with Satori's ear for music and sounds, is the driving force behind T.O.E., allowing the group to develop such a powerful style of music... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Touch+of+Eternity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.