There are multiple artists that perform under the name 'Touched':

1. A British Heavy Metal /Glam Metal that formed in 19832. A South Korean rock co-ed rock band

1. Touched was a Heavy Metal/Glam Metal band active in the 1980s. The band formed in 1983 in Lancashire and consisted of Ronnie Wolstenholme - Vocals, Martin Schofield - Drums (The Outsiders), Jon Hull - Guitars (Aragorn (UK), The Outsiders), Mark Caffrey - Bass (The Outsiders). Thet released their first album Back Alley Vices in 1985, and followed with several other releases, including their second album Deathrow. The bands style can be described as a mixture between Iron Maiden, early 80's US glam metal, and NWOBHM. For more info on Touched, including album reviews. check out their page on http://www.metal-archives.com/

2. (터치드)TOUCHED is a South Korean co-ed indie rock/pop rock band that debuted in 2020. Their debut single Blue was released Dec 13th, 2020. Since then, they have released 4 additional singles as wel asl their first album Purple which was released on December 8th, 2021. They have five members who are vocalist Yumin(윤민), guitarist D.on (디온), bassist John B. Kim (존비킴), keyboardist Chae Dohyeon (채도현), and drummer Kim Seungbin (김승빈). As a group, they have won 1st place in the RISING STAR 4U competition as well as won the grand prize at the 31st Annual Yoo Jae Ha Music Contest. The members each have a variety of creative influences and perspectives that contribute to their artistic process, though their shared love for rock and pop rock is a primary force guiding their sound. Some of the artists that influence the band members are Lee Juck, Richie Kotzen, Stevie  Wonder, Mr. Big, Radiohead, Coldplay, The Beatles, and John Mayer. For more information on them, please refer to their official social channels:

Instagram: @touched_officialYoutube:  터치드 TOUCHED <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Touched">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.