Toxic Smile was founded by keyboard player Marek Arnold and drummer Daniel Zehe in January 1996. At this time both lived in Leipzig. The simple reason for starting the band was that they were fed up with playing student jazz all the time. In May 1996, guitarist Uwe Reinholz joined the band. However, it took another two years to find the right vocalist. Since Larry B. entered Toxic Smile, his voice has been the special trademark of Toxic Smile's sound. The band was completed by bass player Robert Brenner in January 2000. 

Till this time some demo tapes had already been recorded and the group soon started working on their debut CD "Madness and Despair" (at foen studio). On October 1st 2000, Toxic Smile released "MAD" (on F.act-records). The album was especially successful in Asia. BMG Seoul offered the band a major deal. Toxic Smile signed, of course!! Korean guitarist Ahn Hete supported the band as "special promotion guest" during their time with BMG. "MAD" was supplemented with a couple of new tracks and received a new master mix. In August 2001, after signing the contract with BMG South Korea, "M.A.D." was released in Asia. At the same time Toxic Smile played a promotional tour in South Korea.

From October 2001 to November 2002 Toxic Smile spent most of their time writing songs for their second album until the band separated from BMG due to various differences regarding the recorded material. 

From February - April 2003, their sophomore album was recorded by Marek and Uwe at Wizard studios. During July and August 2003 mixing and mastering of the album took place at Famous Kitchen studios (Andy Horn). "Retrotox Forte" was finally released on March 15th 2004 by Famous Kitchen.

In the summer of 2004 the band started work on the classical project "Waldenburg". In September 2004 Daniel suddenly left the band. Within two weeks Antonius Gruetzner was hired as Toxic Smile's new drummer. His first gig with the band was released on a limited DVD called "live at the Progparade V" . In February 2005, the rehearsals for the classical DVD "Toxic Extension" took place and the recording eventually happened in Waldenburg on March 5th. In November 2006, the DVD "Toxic Smile in classic Extension" was released. 

During 2007 and 2008 all members worked more and more on their individual careers. 2008 Antonius left the band - not without recording drums for the upcoming EP. Marek took care of the recording and mixing of that record. The EP was released in June 2009 on Oliver Wenzler's label "Progressive Promotion".

In the meantime, Robert Eisfeld, founder and owner of "Dresdner Drumfestival" has taken over drum duties. FASTEN YOUR SEAT BELTS - after one year of creative songwriting and producing new album " I'm your saviour" was just released in Jan 2011... 
...to be continued... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Toxic+Smile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.