Toxifix is a Blackened Death/Thrash band from Dallas, Texas.  (Taken from the band's webpage) Toxifix was spawned when Guitarist Robert Coronado took time off from his former band to regroup his thoughts and the direction he wanted to go in. He shared his ideas with different musicians over the couple years he took off and received lots of positive feedback. Some were interested in being involved. The first person to really show enthusiasm was the drummer from the band Sky Bleeds Red. Clint Tucker found the perfect place to unleash the black metal drumming style he had burning inside of him. The two where in Sky Bleeds Red and would warm up together before practice. That's where they discovered that they were on the same wave length in what type of music they wanted to create. The final piece of the puzzle came into place when they met a bassist by the name of Jonah Hinojosa. The two where blown away with the skill and love that Jonah offered the band. Robert had talked to Jonah about being apart of the new project and did not hesitate to give his approval. From that moment Toxifix was brought to life. Robert took the band and hit the ground running. He locked himself away from the world and began to write and record some of the most intense music that was pouring out of his mind. when he approached his other members with the music they loved it and began to add and write their parts. the music became something else, it became a force and the members are just the vessels it uses to come to life. Toxifix likes to pride itself on the abillity to use more than metal elements to create true art, and like true art everything is up for interpretation. When asked about the lyrics or the music Robert shrugs and simply responds "i dunno, what do you think it means?"

In November 2011 Toxifix placed the infamous local festival No Thanks Fest and released their debut album "Rise from the Ashes" on CD to the attendees, the album was released digitally two days later <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Toxifix">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.