TOXOCARA was founded early 2003. After a couple of line up changes TOXOCARA's current foundation couldn't be steadier. The base of TOXOCARA's music lays in the breathtaking drums performed William Vlierman (ex-Inri, Ex-Altar, Visionary 666) and the growling bass of Barry Geerligs (DeathSquad). Hysterical guitars produced by Vince Zwarts (ex- Seizure) and Martijn Moes (The Monolith Deathcult, ex- Eternal Conspiracy, ex- Beyond Belief) and the monstruous vocal attacks performed by Niels Feekes (ex-Victimizer) complete the brutal TOXOCARA sound. 

Through the years TOXOCARA played with members like;

Michiel van der Plicht  (God Dethroned, Prostitute Disfigurement, ex- Katafalk)
Anne van Doorn (ex - Murder Manifest)
Kevin Quilligan (Erebus)
Sanne van Dijk (Erebus)
Petra Guijt (Deadcell, ex - 11th Hour)

In September 2004 TOXOCARA hit the studio for their promo entitled "Visceral Larval Migrans". This promo contains all TOXOCARA stands for; hyperfast parts alternate with slower parts, additional sampling and dual vocal attacks. 

In August 2005 the debut album "Imminent Repulsion (Suffice to Prevent)" was born. This album contains 10 brutal Death Metal songs, elaborating on where Toxocara started, but more intense, hysterical and varied! In the meantime Toxocara did some impressive shows like the London Deathfest and Noordschok (NL) and shared the stage with bands like Krisiun, Master and Pungent Stench. 

In January 2008 the second full length “ The Great Rebellious” appeared. Where “Imminent Repulsion” stopped, “The Great Rebellious” took over. More oiled then ever Toxocara puts its energy in the 8 tracks counting album, full with intense Death Metal. The album is well received in the world with very good reviews. More international gigs followed.

The year 2009 TOXOCARA starts with a new line up as mentioned above. Guitarist Martijn Moes continues the struggle and the first new live shows are a fact. 2010 will be the year of a new TOXOCARA album. A new TOXOCARA, with a new sound!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Toxocara">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.