There are five different bands with the name Traces

1. Traces(Now Saturnian) are a Symphonic/Melodic Black Metal band from the UK, formed by guitarist Dave James, bassist Daniel Scrivener and his brother James Scrivener on keys, and were shortly joined by Sam Greenland on drums. Taking influence from such bands as Wintersun, Dimmu Borgir and Emperor, the success of their demo track Vivisection  managed to secure them a deal with Siege Of Amida Records in 2007 only a few months after their formation. In early 2008 Traces were faced with the setback of losing both their vocalist and second guitarist, but near the end of the year a suitable replacement was found in Phil Wilson (Ex-Gorerotted/The Rotted). They recorded their debut EP at the end of the year, and in early 2009 found a replacement guitarist in Myk Barber. After many delays the EP was finally released in July 2009, and Traces are now playing all over the UK whilst writing material for their debut full length. They changed their name to Saturnian in 2011.
(www.myspace.com/saturnianband)



2. Traces is a djent/progressive/techmetal band from Beaver Falls,Pennsylvania that consists of 3 members all under the age of 16. The members include Jules Granati-Drums, Noah Thayer-Guitar, and Nate Catanzarite-Bass. The band has been playing together for about 4 years but as far ass metal goes only about 2 and 1/2 years. They are currently working on a debut EP and possible LP also... The goal for the bands sound is to create a progressive mix of Djent guitar style with the likes of 'Sumeriancore' and other influences to the band.
Traces currently runs out of Noah's home studio, which totally kicks ass.


3. French rock band with Vincent (BB Skin) from Bleach Boys. "Crache le Mal" and "Du Temps" 7"s both released in 1994, first in 773 copies and second in 1.000 copies! Melodic and unique sound.

4. A shoegaze/dreampop outfit from Montréal, QC, Canada. (tracestraces.bandcamp.com)

5. An LA based electronic singer songwriter who is set to release his debut EP later this year <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Traces">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.