The rap game is about to draft another MVP. So forget what you expect from an Atlanta rapper, because Tracy T is about to change the game up with his highly anticipated solo project not yet titled. The Atlanta born MC finally steps out on his own to get the respect he deserves. Tracy T position as a member of Zone 1 Coterie and the president of League Of G’s (L.O.G) has already prepared him for the spotlight with the release of several mixtapes. Tracy T’s slick, harmonic flow on the single "SupaKool" helped make the song ride and had everyone from club DJs to people on the street putting it on repeat. Being raised in the Bankhead section of Atlanta; Tracy T's childhood was difficult. He lived with his grandmother at her foster home and really started to appreciate the small things most kids would take for granite. Tracy T mingled with drug dealers, drug users and was taught and soon realized that he had to make a legitimate hustle. So Tracy T would focus on school and getting good grades to go to college. He started writing raps and letting his uncle Travis and friend Black Boy hear his rhymes, the reaction he received from them ignited him to pursue music. He began to make rap tapes with classmates Smoody and Ironhead and play them at school. Folks started to spread the word he rapped and he began writing songs with other classmates. Shortly after Tracy T grandmother passed away and he didn’t care much about making music. Then Tracy T and Ironhead linked up with another Bankhead resident Thoroughbred and began making music just playing around, giving cd’s to people they went to college with and noticed people making copies of their CD, listening and learning their songs. Then the group was formed and the three have been business partners ever since. The group started the label League Of G’s Entertainment, built a studio and signed other artist. In next to no time they began recording songs, making mixtapes, and opening up for major recording artist. This is just the beginning of the Tracy T movement so stay in tune. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tracy+T">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.