Tragederia is a dark melodic metal band formed late 2012 in Gothenburg, Sweden by the ex-members of VOID. The band is composed of guitarist/lyricist Jimmy L. Jönsson, bassist/vocalist Robin Olofsson, lead guitarist Robin Bengtsson, lead vocalist Rickard "CK" Hallberg, keyboardist/lead singer Natasa Nikolic and drummer Sven Funseth.
"VOID" (The Tragederia Prologue)
VOID first started off 2009 as a three-piece constellation consisting of Robin Olofsson, Jimmy L. Jönsson and Robin Bengtsson. In search for new members they came in touch with drummer Martin Ambjörnsson. Having rehearsed for a few months Martin ran in to a friend of old: Rickard Hallberg. Unaware of him being a vocalist, Martin told him about the band whereupon Rickard revealed his singing habits. He was later asked to audition for VOID. All of the members was impressed by his charismatic and energetic style. Quickly learning a wide range of vocal techniques, he was to become a very important member of the band.
VOID then carried on as a quintet until a year later, when Natasa Nikolic joined the band. Natasa is a talented operatic-style singer and a keyboardist which the band first met Natasa in a music competition in late 2010, and they were all impressed. The band was then in a great need of a keyboarder to steer orchestrations and further accentuate their sound, so they decided to invite Natasa to permanently join the band as a singer/keyboardist. She accepted.
VOID released their only EP "Humanity" in 2011.
"Tragederia" 
The members of the band then felt that something needed to be done to freshen up the look and feel of the band, to make their name ring more true to what they had now evolved into musically and lyrically. They came up with Tragederia to represent this new era, so to speak, for the band.
Following a studio session in 2013, Martin Ambjörnsson announced his departure from the band and left Tragederia without drummer. A few days later, Natasa came in touch with friend and talented drummer Sven Funseth (of the progressive metal act "Akribi") and asked him if he was interested in helping us record our upcoming album. He accepted. Sven's musical talent and determinition immediately strengthened the backbone of the music, allowing Tragederia to develop their sound in new directions. 
Being stronger than ever before, Tragederia are currently preparation stage for the recordings of their debut album which is planned to be released some time during 2017. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tragederia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.