Former name of the German power metal band Sacred Steel.
There is also a DarkWave/Gothic/NeoClassic band named "Tragedy Divine" which is still alive. The album "Visions of Power" is from the power-metal band and the rest from the DarkWave-band.


The DarkWave-band:

The band TRAGEDY DIVINE was formed in the fall of 1996 by Torsten Simon and Markus Nega.
The first name they chose for this project was 'Pain of Existence' and we intended to create something different apart from all the other commercial Dark Wave stuff with more quality and a timeless touch.
After about half a year they decided to change their name into 'TRAGEDY DIVINE'.
About that time they looked for a female voice to give the songs a better sound and so Anne-Marie Jung joined the band.
In 1998 TD published their first recording 'The Rehearsals', a 10-song Demo-Tape.
After this release Markus definately left the band because of musical differences and Anne-Marie and Torsten decided to carry on.
Since that TD published 3 highly acclaimed songs ('...and now I die...', 'Far Aside' and 'Forever Lost') on the 'Modern Entertainment Sampler'-series, a German underground compilation.
2002 saw the release of "A Million Miles Away" on a German magazine's compilation, the Astan magazine.
After Anne-Marie quit the band in 2003 Jeannine Mueller joined TD but Jeannine decided to leave the band at the beginning of 2008.
After a long break Torsten decided to carry on and make Tragedy Divine a solo project so there's hope for some new material in 2009.

Releases:
1997 The Rehearsals (Demo-Tape)
1999 ...and now I die... (Modern Entertainment Sampler Vol. II)
2000 Far Aside (Modern Entertainment Sampler Vol. III)
2000 Forever Lost (Modern Entertainment Sampler Vol. IV)
2002 A Million Miles Away (Astan Magazin Sampler)
2009 Alone (Web-Release) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tragedy+Divine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.