Trails is the name of at least 4 bands:

1) Trails is Bryan Burgos & Kyle Potter out of Orlando, FL.
http://trailsmusic.bandcamp.com
https://soundcloud.com/trailsss
https://www.facebook.com/trailsss

2) Trails, Oakland, USA. Folk pop bossa nova band. trailmap.bandcamp.com

3) Trails, UK. Forming late 2010, TRAILS are currently ripping the UK a new a-hole on the underground circuit. Their live show is raucous; their music an energetic collision of melodic vocals and heavyweight riffage. Their debut EP (recorded and produced by James Kenosha - Pulled Apart By Horses, Dinosaur Pile-Up etc) is slated for release this summer, while their highly anticipated debut single 'All The Other Humans is OUT NOW, and available at:
www.alltheotherhumans.bigcartel.com
The band are already out gigging the material of this release, and, as the tireless live band they are, will continue to gig as much as humanly possible, so be sure to get down to a show and check out their energetic live performance!

4) Trails of San Diego, CA, featuring one Zorn Borcom and three Tarf Moyyabbalobbiss. Formed in the ashes of the legendary Skreem Krike Rewrite of 80s goth rock fame Zorn and Tarf exited to the Pliggitty Plains for 3 Nasbumfs whilest simulataneaoulsly goin "wow." Then in 2003 they got back together anew and refreshed and formed Trails, going on a world tour with 27 Zorphobians and Whyse Two-Crack. They returned from tour refreshed and renewed and got to war on their newest of new albums "Born to Zorn, Die Tarf Die", which came out a little bit later. And then they said to each other, "let's make a new album, yes" so they did this and it was good. They called it "Remember the Titans? NOPE!" and it received many good reviews mostly in the Times, all of them. Rumors have been speculating that they will return in 2012 with their album "2012: Day or Nite?".
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trails">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.