1) Transcend is a progressive metal band based in Montreal, Canada. They released their first full-length album, The Mind, in November 2011. 
Welcome to the world of Transcend; a progressive-metal band from Montreal. Formed out of the suburbs of Montreal with a raging passion to abolish formulaic and simplified popular music of all genres, Transcend persevered for over five years before finally completing their first album, The Mind. These musical goals could not have been achieved without an extremely proficient line-up of musicians: Constantine Damoulianos on Guitar and Vocals, Alexi Lagogianis on Keyboards, Nico Damoulianos on Bass
and Jake Shamash on Drums. How four such talented individuals end up in the same town in the same band remains a fated mystery, though it should be clear; these guys will rip up the stage live without hesitation, and with as much precision as in the studio.
Although they do indeed fall into the category of Metal, one will quickly learn that Transcend brings a whole new musical world to the table in the epic masterpiece: The Mind. Ranging from the heaviest riffs and odd-time extended instrumental sections to soft male-female vocal duets and Greek Bouzouki parts, we are taken on an inspiring journey by these young virtuosos. Although Transcend echoes with originality, their influences remain clear and often intentionally obvious to any fans of Progressive Metal. Their music screams; Dream Theater, Symphony X, Pain of Salvation, Devin Townsend and Opeth – but also takes us to dreamier worlds like those of Pink Floyd, King Crimson and at times even Elton John and The Tea Party.

Get ready to be taken on one of the most exciting musical adventures of the year. The Mind starts in the simple and immature reality of a child, moving through lessons of life and love, and finally an epic 45 minute track to complete the journey as a free and open mind. Welcome to the world of Transcend!
Back to Top

Line-up / Musicians

- Costa Damoulianos / Guitar & Vocals
- Alexi Lagogianis / Keyboards
- Jake Shamash / Drums
- Nico Damoulianos / Bass

THE MIND: Disc 1


Moment of Infinity 0:00
Entity Divine 8:40
The Love Song 21:18
Reign Over Me 29:00

Disc 2

The Mind Part 1: The Mind Awaits
The Mind Part 2: To Walk Away
The Mind Part 3: New Horizons
The Mind Part 4: Carved in Stone
The Mind Part 5: In The Shadow of my Mind
The Mind Part 6: Downfall
The Mind Part 7: Ascension
The Mind Part 8: A New Mind For a New World

2) Transcend are a truly dynamic British thrash metal band. With aggressiveness, power, and melody. Their song writing creatively encompasses thrash, rock, and some classical music elements with a blend of vocal styles. Transcend are simply a few friends having fun... classify them however you choose. 

In January 2008, Andy Phillips & Tony Boyes got together and decided to start writing and recording original material, Daniel Eager joined the band on 24th March 2008.

On April 6th 2008 after a very succesful audition Danny Ogola joined the band filling the position of drummer and completing the line up.

Unfortunately on April 13th 2008 Daniel Eager was forced to leave Transcend due to family issues. Shortly after this Andrew Phillips moved from Lead Guitar to Bass Guitar and Steve Pullan joined as Lead Guitarist. 

Steve unfortunatly had to quit the band due to college studies and so the hunt for the a lead guitarist began. Adeniyi Nedd (Neddy) stepped up to the challenge and many new songs are in the works. 

A debut album is in the works for late 2008. 

3) Transcend was an American SxE vegan band in the beginning of the 1990s. Old-school mid-paced and melodic.

4) Transcend (James Kitcher) is a freeform producer, whose tracks has been released on labels such as Smiling Corpse and Watchtower Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Transcend">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.