After several years of being unable to find likewise musicians, guitarist Danny Hove Jensen decided that he wanted to form a band consisting of serious and skilled musicians. In August 2003 he started jamming with a local drummer, whilst recruiting a bass-player shortly after and began writing new material. They decided that they wanted to add a second guitar-player to the line-up. Signar Petersen (ex-Mercenary, ex-Behind the Curtain) was the man they were looking for.

Soon after Signar joined the band, things started to roll, but due to personal and musical differences, Transparent parted with both their drummer and bass player. During the next couple of months Danny and Signar continued to write new songs and they also recruited René Pedersen as their new singer. The newly-formed trio decided to record an EP, and recruited Signar’s former band-mate Brian “Brylle” Rasmussen (Mnemic, ex-Behind the Curtain) as their new drummer.

In November 2004, the band entered Apole-studios to record the five-track promotional CD, with production being handled by the band members, as well as Morten Sandager (Mercenary, ex-Behind the Curtain) and Casper Skafte (SmaXone). After three weeks of hard work, “Mutual Assured Destruction” was complete. In May 2005 Transparent printed a few hundred promotion CDs which were send out to record-labels, magazines and other forms of media. Bassist Mads Stagis bolstered Transparent’s ranks shortly after the release of Transparent’s new demo. However, Brian “Brylle” Rasmussen decided to part with Transparent due to personal reasons a few months later. After 18 months of continuing without a drummer, Morten Løwe Sørensen joined forces with the band in early 2007. Known for his work in such bands as Submission, The Arcane Order, Hatesphere and Scarve, Morten is to this day a sign of Transparent’s ever-growing range of talents.

In April of 2007, Transparent finished the writing of four new songs and entered a studio to record a new EP. Transparent once again chose Casper Skafte for co-production, whilst choosing experienced producer/engineer Ziggy (ex-Hatesphere) for the mastering. 3 months later, My Criterion 666 was born. Shortly after, 500 promotion CDs of My Criterion 666 were sent out to record-labels and magazines in the hope of getting a record-deal, critical-acclaim and world domination… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Transparent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.