1. Metalcore from Louisville, KY. Active 2017-2020.

2. Transgression started in the mid-eighties with Bob Cripe, Matt Van Kersen & Paul Linhart. The band was playing a show in Marion, IN when the members met John Zeps and Doug Ketchem. The band proceeded to add Dino Codalata as a guitarist. In a few reunion shows in 2004/2005, Dustin Boltjes was the drummer, and Dave Lawson was on vocals. The current lineup consists of John, Dino, and Bob on guitar, Doug on bass, Dustin on drums, and Paul on vocals.

Transgression has had three primary recordings. The first was a cassette tape titled "Better Days". A studio album was produced by Paul Mahern (of Zero Boys fame) via the UK label, Manic Ears Records. The album, titled "Cold World", was released in 1988. Shortly before Transgression disbanded, they recorded a 7 inch vinyl with one of their more progressive tracks titled "Dismay".

Transgression disbanded for several years, but has recently reunited and has performed a few shows in Indianapolis. After seeing the energy of the local hardcore scene of Indianapolis, Transgression is optimistic that they can continue to thrash with the new as well as the seasoned punk and metal underground of Indy.

3. Transgression is a heavy crustcore band from Washington DC/Maryland formed in late 2008. Their lineup was finalized in April of 2009 with the addition of Alexia on bass. They play fast, heavy crust in the vein of His Hero Is Gone and Dystopia. 

The band consists of:

Maddy Strassler: Vocals
Zack Chumley: Guitar/Vocals
Alexia: Bass
Ian Durkin: Drums

www.myspace.com/transgressiondc

4. Transgression is a Old School Death Metal band from Leverkusen, Germany.

In early 1997 Transgression was founded by René Hollweg (g), Dave Steffens (b), Andreas Westphal (v) (who all played together in a Band called Asmodina before), Carsten Koch (g) and Michael Pohl (dr).

In this constellation some gigs were played before the band has to split up with singer Andreas through personally disagreements. After a short time drummer Michael left the band for studying in foreign countries.

The problem of having no drummer was solved through the recognization of old Asmodina-times as former drummer Arkadius Neumann joined the band.

After some times of only rehearsing instrumentally in early 1999 Lars Zimmermann joined the band on the vocals.

With this static line-up some demos were recorded:

June 1999: "First Demo(n)" – rehearsal room recording that was sold on tape at concerts

March 2000: "redruM" 4-song 8-track-recording that was spread as CD-R

December 2002: "Live in Wermelskirchen" Recording from a concert with Pungent Stench and Disastrous Murmour

With this line-up, a six-song-CD "Guilty Rotten Flesh" was produced in December 2003, and is obtainable through the band and some mailorders; followed by "Dress Code" in January 2007.

In total, with different lineups, six releases have been published since the end of the 90s, René has always being there in his role of the co-founder of the band, and the chief songwriter on the lead guitar. As yet, Oli the vocalist sticks with him since the latest release “Scourge For Mankind”  (December 2014). The band was completed with Steve on the guitar/vocals, and since 2020 – Florian (drums) and Dong (bass), who craft a powerful rhythm section.

Current line-up
Oli Layher – Lead Vocals
René Hollweg – Lead Guitar, Vocals
Steve Vollmar – Guitar, Vocals
Dong Lee – Bass
Flo Münster – Drums

Official: http://www.transgression.de/

5. Transgression are a metal band from Plymouth UK.

Starting in December 2009, TRANSGRESSION have quickly gained a large local following as well as across the rest of the southwest and parts of the UK. Touring the UK with Breed 77 and The Defiled and supporting bands such as Malefice, Belphegor, Dragged into Sunlight, Brotherhood of the Lake, Violent Virtues.

The release of their second demo of 2010, "As Tides Change" is looking to set Transgression up to be a big band in the metal scene for the next few years, and definitely a band to keep an eye on.

In 2011, Transgression have a yet-to-be-titled album coming out on Rising Records.

www.myspace.com/transgressionuk
www.facebook.com/transgressionuk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Transgression">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.