Transient names at least seven musical entities.

1) Led by former Smile Empty Soul and 12 Stones bassist Jody Linnell, the heavy rock/metal band Transient is rounded out by seasoned musicians. Based out of New Orleans, Louisiana, the project began as a solo endeavor, but after about a year Linnell decided to recruit good friends from his regional area to complete the lineup.

The band consists of Jody Linnell (guitar), Trey J. Mollo (vocals), Emmett Shumate (guitar), Brian Bennett (bass), and Phil Krohn (drums). Linnell has not only been in the previously mentioned bands, he has also performed in multiple local bands over the past several years. Each of the other members have done regional projects and are veterans of their respective scenes.

After forming in 2020 and getting the lineup together, the band went in to record with Jonathan Dolese at KonKrete Studios in Kenner, Louisiana. Transient’s debut single “Nightmare” along with its official music video, which premiered on the Dreambound YouTube Channel, were released on October 18th, 2020.

2) Transient are a melodic hardcore band from Greenville, SC, United States. Forming in the fall of 2010, they started to gain recognition with their debut EP Alone, promoting their own brand of passionate modern hardcore, with strong and ambient melodic guitar riffs.

They have released 2 EP's to date, Alone, a 5 song EP in May 2011, and their latest release We Do Not Lose Heart, a 3 song EP in March 2012. Both of these EP's can be downloaded from the bands Bandcamp page, with a donation scheme implemented for both. Go support the band by donating a few dollars if you like what you hear. 

Transient is - Aaron Colesworthy - Vocals, Brannon Crumpton - Drums, Dalton Perry - Guitar, Jacob Lawter - Guitar/Vocals and Parker Byrd - Bass.

Useful Links - BANDCAMP - www.transientsc.bandcamp.com, FACEBOOK - www.facebook.com/transientsc, MERCHANDISE - www.transientsc.bigcartel.com

3) Carl Martin aka Transient has been producing electronic music since the early 1990’s. At that time he was introduced to tracking software through the local BBS scene and began creating music on his trusty 286. Through the years he continued to use trackers (modedit, screamtracker 3, impulse tracker, modplug tracker) as his basic composition tool, eventually settling on Renoise. He has released music for many labels throughout the world, and is best known for a wide range of eclectic releases put out by various entities within the netlabel community. His discography which includes over 50 records, 500+ tracks, and spans more than 40 hours, has received millions of downloads and streams. Transient’s works are eclectic and come in a multitude of genres (trip-hop, downtempo, idm, glitch, ambient, electro, techno, and classical to name a few.) In recent years, he’s refocused his efforts on live music, joined by a drummer in the duo Split Phase (http://www.splitphase.com) and has branched out into various solo side projects (beat.dowsing, quiestest, etc.). These days he’s using his Transient moniker appropriately for one of his loves, the art of mobile music making via cell phones, pda’s, and portable gaming systems.

Official site: http://www.noisyvagabond.com 

4)  Transient is a space rock band that features Brian Fair of Shadows Fall and Overcast on guitar, Scott McCooe of Overcast on bass, Kevin Rheault on drums, and Tim Hayes on guitar and vocals.
Music can be heard @ http://www.myspace.com/transient

5)  Transient is a progressive metal band from Vernon, New Jersey.

6)  An artist named Transient who did several NIN remixes. (Missing info?)

7)  Transient is a grindcore band from Portland, Oregon. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Transient">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.