Jacques Berman Webster II (born April 30, 1991), better known by his stage name Travis Scott, is an American rapper, singer, songwriter, and record producer. His stage name is the namesake of a favorite uncle combined with the first name of one of his inspirations, Kid Cudi (whose real name is Scott Ramon Seguro Mescudi). He has been nominated for eight Grammy Awards and won a Billboard Music Award and a Latin Grammy Award.
In 2012, Scott signed his first major-label contract with Epic Records and a publishing deal with Kanye West's GOOD Music. In April 2013, he signed a joint-recording contract with Epic and T.I.'s Grand Hustle imprint. Scott's first full-length project, the mixtape Owl Pharaoh, was self-released in 2013. It was followed with a second mixtape, Days Before Rodeo, in 2014. His debut studio album, Rodeo (2015), was led by the hit single "Antidote". His second album, Birds in the Trap Sing McKnight (2016), became his first number one album on the Billboard 200. The following year, Scott released a collaborative album with Quavo titled Huncho Jack, Jack Huncho under the group name Huncho Jack.
In 2018, his third studio album, Astroworld, was released to critical acclaim and produced his first Billboard Hot 100 number one single, "Sicko Mode". In late 2019, Scott's record label Cactus Jack Records released the compilation album JackBoys, which topped the Billboard 200. After the release of his single "Franchise" (featuring Young Thug and M.I.A.) in 2020, Scott became the first artist on the Hot 100 to have three songs debut at number one in less than a year.
Scott has gained notoriety for controversies and legal issues regarding safety at his concerts. In November 2021, a mass-casualty crowd crush occurred during Scott's performance at the Astroworld Festival in his hometown of Houston, Texas, killing ten people and injuring hundreds of others. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Travi$+Scott">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.