Enver Çolakoğlu, who is also known as Travma comes from Istanbul, Turkey. Since his early childhood, he was addicted to electronic instruments and music. When he was at highschool age, Travma, who got acquainted with Amiga, got closer to electronics and music. In 2000s he got influenced with Psychedelic/Goa pioneers. Besides with the aim of improving himself at computer stuff, he became one of the first graduates from BilgeAdam. This training helped him improve on computer and programming. He commenced to produce different types of electronic music, as an amateur, in 2004. He sped up his paces by getting the hang of a lot of music programmes in a short time. Thanks to the feelings that Travma reflected to his music, good tunes started to turn out. At the times when he filled up with profound feelings, Travma transfered them into his music and this led his track named "Zaman" to come out, which evoked different emotions and drew attention to him.Travma’s success became sensible both in Turkey and in abroad as well.
Moreover, there were someone who did a lot more than being interested, and carried out Travma’s dream. That person was Lost Buddha from Portugal, who wanted Travma to be involved within his own portal and he also wanted Travma’s tracks on the albums to be released. Filipe, who fancied the track "Zaman", put forward that this track to be released on the album "Pyramidal Trancendence" whose arrangements had been going on and the compilation with this track was released. 
Travma got married in 2007. The same year all the people around him insisted on him joining in the second Trance Production Competition. They made the track with his life companion, who always stuck up for him. Travma ended up with the fifth position at the end of the votes, and "Son Nefes" which was a track for the competition stole the limelight with its different sound. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Travma">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.