There are multiple artists named Traxx

1. Chicago born and bred Melvin Oliphant aka Traxx is known for constructing the "jakbeat" sound -- "a turbo-charged take on old school acid and Chicago house for the '00s put together with the unmistakeable tones of classic analogue gear such as the TR-909, TR-808, and, of course, the TB-303". 

Traxx has released music on numerous underground labels in the US and Europe including Gigolo, Relief, Muzique, M/O/S, and Crème. His music was released under various aliases including Dirty Criminals, XX Art, Mysterio, ViLLan X, Saturn V(with Tadd Mullinix), X2, and more.

In 2009 Traxx released his first full length 'Faith' album under his own name for his Chicago based imprint Nation.

His first release appeared on DJ Hell's Gigolo label in the early 00's under the collective alias The Dirty Criminals which was a Chicago based collective that featured mainly the work of working with collaborators like Charles Manier, Mystic Bill Torres, Daryl 'Deecoy' Cura, Brendan M. Gillen, Matt Nee(Kompute), Josh Werner, Stephen Hitchell plus early on work from Jamal Moss aka Hieroglyphic Being.

In addition to a number of 12"s Dirty Criminals released, two albums were very well received in Europe -2004's "Organized Confuzion" and 2006's Collision Between Us And The Damned" which featured a cover of an early unreleased version of "Acid Tracks" by Phuture that was played around Chicago.

In an age of digital perfection Traxx is analog, when he DJs he plays vinyl and when he's in the studio he uses hardware. 

2.  TraxX (formerly known as The TRAX and TRAX), was a South Korean EDM trio that consisted of Jay, Jungmo and Ginjo. Originally a four-member rock band formed by SM Entertainment and X Japan's co-founder Yoshiki in 2004, with consists of Typhoon Jay (leader and vocals), Rose Minwoo (drums), Attack Jungwoo (bass), and Xmas Jungmo (guitar). Their name is an acronym of "Typhoon Rose Attack Xmas", which also used as the members stage name. 

3.  Traxx is a synthwave and chillwave producer from Paris, France. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Traxx">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.