Tre Nyce is an artist that has exploded onto the Hip-Hop and Rap scene and has quickly become a key figure and highly sought after Rap artist. Tre rarely puts pen to paper and the majority of Tre Nyce's music and lyrics-he keeps in memory. Being creative, with a strong love for music since he was a child and a love for Vancouver, BC, Tre incorporates all of these elements into his music.

Tre is a unique artist, fierce when it comes to battles and performances, explosive energy on stage and confident in himself, music and life. Tre’s skills, perseverance and strong work ethic, do not go unnoticed because he has performed and collaborated with some of Canada and the U.S. music industry’s top artists.

Notably, Swollen Members. The group consists principally of the duo Mad Child and Prevail, two of the most innovative people in Hip-Hop. A frequent collaborator includes Rap Artist/Vocalist Moka Only and Producer Rob The Viking, an official group member since 2002. Swollen Members are part of the reason that many Canadian Hip-Hop and Rap artists are now in the forefront of the global music scene and Tre Nyce is no exception. Tre's talents speak for themselves and as such, the Swollen Members crew quickly inducted Tre to become a "Battle Axe Warrior", collaborating, working and performing at shows throughout Canada, soon to be on tour in the U.S.

Working with Battle Axe, Subnoize, and DJ Skee on solo projects, upcoming tour dates with some of the U.S. music scene’s heavy hitters, Tre Nyce is busy as ever and as always, he is up to the challenge.

Tre has just completed his album and mixtape, the CD will hit the streets soon. There is a lot happening for this hot new artist and so much is to be said, but due to confidentiality, cannot be released at this time.

This summer is going to be Huge for Tre Nyce, so stay posted! Visit Tre Nyce’s MySpace site to hear new music, Tre Nyce’s Facebook Page for Events, News and more. Thank you all for your support <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tre+Nyce">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.