Hailing from Atlanta and ready to take over the world: it’s Treasure Fingers

Treasure Fingers, the DJ and producer born Ashley Jones has been making it rain in the disco with innovative remixes and original tracks. Jones is far from a new jack, having racked up over a decade of international club experience and studio chops as part of the legendary drum & bass group, Evol Intent. Yet as Treasure Fingers, he’s found a way to merge his diverse influences and deep history into a signature sound, packed with intricate basslines, chopped-up, gritty synth melodies, and party-ready drum breaks. It’s already captured the ears of everyone from Innerpartysystem , Monarchy, Theophilus London and Miike Snow to dance music icons  Eric Prydz, Romanthony and Roy Davis JR (all of whom requested the Treasure Fingers remix treatment). His amazing new twist on Disco attracted the attention of such labels as Defected, MOS, Nervous, Hed Kandi and Fools Gold to name a few.

“Cross The Dancefloor” was Treasure Fingers’ debut, an inescapably catchy, vocoder-laced dance gem that two-steps over genre boundaries. The instant classic received support from A-List DJs around the world such as Erick Morillo, Pete Tong, Annie Mac, Sinden and Kissy Sell Out. He has had 2 more monumental releases since then.  First is his Lift Me EP on Defected records.  “Lift Me” leads the way with a twisted synth and trigga happy vocal cut session, and that gets combined with the bouncy edge of “It’s Love”.   Secondly is Keep Up feat Haley Small on Fools Gold.  Four minutes of vocoder funk and throwback freestyle drums that feel right on time thanks to Treasure Fingers’ clever arrangements and candy-sweet vocals.  Treasure Fingers has kept the momentum going with heavy touring and official remixes for numerous artists including Avicii & Seb Drums (Around the World), Chromeo (Vice/Atlantic), Estelle (Atlantic), Empire of the Sun (EMI), Kid Cudi (G.O.O.D/Sony), Monarchy (Mercury), N.A.S.A feat Kanye West, Santogold & Lykke Li (Epitaph), Theophilus London (Warner Bros Records) and James Curd (Om) (remix went to #1 on the Beatport Club Chart). A constant favorite on Hype Machine, he has also received amazing support from such blogs as Disco Dust, Boom Boom Chik, Indy Shuffle, Big Stereo and Discobelle to name a few. A new batch of equally funky Treasure Fingers originals & a mix CD are on their way along with tours in North America, Europe, UK, Asia, Australia and South America. These coming after successful tours and gigs with artists Roy Davis Jr, Fake Blood, A-Trak, Chromeo, Laidback Luke, Fred Falke, Felix da Housecat & Benny Benassi, to name a few.

What else would you expect from the A-Town original with the Midas touch, who continues to receive accolades and Radio 1 support from heavy hitters Pete Tong, Annie Mac (with a mini mix under his belt), Kissy Sellout, Jaymo & Andy George, all helping Treasure Fingers launch up, up and away into the future with people getting their smooth house groove on around the globe.  
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Treasure+Fingers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.