A lot of people talk about realness. In fact in seems to be one of the most common topics in the Hip-Hop culture. Every artist has a pursuit to showcase their realness. The term “real” is so embedded in the rap game, that it is the largest factor in measuring achievement and a top spot with the legends. Whether you feel the game is dying due to slumping record sales, change, fakes, one hit wonders, or any particular genre, the fact remains, the game is dying, until Now. 

At 18 years of age, the self proclaimed Relevance of Hip-Hop is break through artist TreaZon. TreaZon is not the new era of Hip Hop, he is not the resurrection of Hip-Hop, he is Hip-Hop. Born into rap music, TreaZon grew up on the classics, and entered the culture during the golden era. It was always something he desired to venture in. As a youth, TreaZon faced personal struggles due to a wide array of impacting events. Life was hard, and it reflected his personality. Although always excelling in his tests, TreaZon strayed from school at a young age and faced even worse hardship at home and in the streets. As he grew into his adolescents, his anger and resentment strengthened. Hip-Hop’s role in his life transitioned from passion to profession. Utilizing his vast knowledge and focusing his anger into his music, it grew into an outlet. His career progressed as with his talent, dropping mixtape after mixtape. His fans embraced him for his lyricism, and a sound that didn’t reflect the mainstream. Later meeting Mint, and a squad of artists, they combined to establish Four Five as representation of the caliber of skill they brought to the game. 

TreaZon is now the Free Agent of Year, and has dropped several mixtapes under Four Five, and is prepping for his 2 newest releases: Breathe Life On ‘Em Hosted By: DJ Mick Boogie and Re-Introduction Hosted By: DJ Cannon. The game is on, and its a fight to the top, and only the realest will survive. If you don’t believe in TreaZon, you don’t believe in Hip-Hop, and thats real. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/TreaZon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.