There are multiple bands/artists called Trees:

1) An English folk rock band that existed between 1969 and 1972.
2) Pseudonym San Diego singer/songwriter/synthesist Dane Conover used in the early 1980s.
3) A noir dreampop, shoegaze band from Naples, Italy formed in 1993.
4) Five-piece band based out of Nashville.
5) A  drone/doom metal band from Portland, Oregon.
6) An instrumental post-metal/sludge metal trio from Denver, Colorado, 

1) Trees were an English folk rock band that existed between 1969 and 1972.  Although they met with little commercial success in their time, the reputation of the band has grown over the years.  Like other similar bands at the time, their music were influenced by Fairport Convention, though with a heavier and more psychedelic edge.  The group's material was divided between adaptions of traditional songs and original compositions.
 They produced 2 albums; The Garden of Jane Delawney in 1969 and On the Shore in 1970.

2) False group name for San Diego singer/songwriter/synthesist Dane Conover, who released a new wave/synth-rock album entitled Sleep Convention for MCA under the Trees moniker in 1982.  Received some renown via the singles "Come Back" and "Shock Of The New," whose low-budget videos received some airplay on the nascent MTV.

3) Trees are a noir dreampop, shoegaze band from Naples, Italy.  Trees formed in 1993 and one year later released a now-difficult-to-find Trees demo tape.  In 1997, Trees signed on to a two-album deal with Italian label Energeia.  Their debut self-titled album was released in 1997, and Harmonizer followed two years later (released in America by Losing Today).  National touring followed their album releases.  Eventually Trees went missing for much of the new millennium, but reappeared in 2007 for their 10th Anniversary box set, released by Ark Records, titled Walking Trees.  This new 3-disc collection included reissues of their first two albums and a third new album titled Ash.  Following their newest release, Trees went into hiding again, with little to no live shows planned.  It is unsure what their true status is post-Ash.  http://trees-band.blogspot.com/

4) Trees is a five-piece band based out of Nashville, which released an album titled Back to Roots in 2006.

5) Trees is a drone/doom metal band from Portland, Oregon.  They released their debut, Light's Bane, on 20 Buck Spin (LP) and Crucial Blast (CD).  Freed of This Flesh was released in 2010, and Sickness In followed in 2012.

6) Trees is an instrumental doom/sludge metal trio from Denver, Colorado, featuring Justin Hackl (Only Thunder), Matt Clark (TaunTaun), and Daniel McCarthy.  Their debut album, When The Three Beggars Arrive, was released in mid-2011. 
http://treesmakingyourearsring.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trees">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.