It was back in 1998 that Erik Månsson (guitar) and Adrian Westin (vocals) formed a band called Aggressive Serpent. Marcus Wesslén would soon join and was forced to play the bass. As complete beginners, both as a band and individual musicians, it took them several years to develop their skills on how to write their songs and perform them live.

Back then they recorded several demos with various quality but it was not until March 2003 when the demo "From the beginning" was recorded that they were closing in on the music that they wanted to play. Later that following summer there was a giant step of progress as Conny Pettersson (Anata, Eternal Lies) joined as a drummer and raised the level yet another step. The band was now in the beginning of 2004 writing songs for next demo "Break the silence" when André Gonzales (By Night) stepped in as a second guitar player and completed the lineup that remain today.

With the release of "Break the silence" and the latest member replacements the band also decided to change their name to Trendkill. The demo got really good response from people and magazines in the metal scene and was for example voted best demo in ..68 issue of Close Up Magazine. It was that recording that also gave them the chance to play at the biggest festival in Sweden, Hultsfredsfestivalen, in the summer of 2004. With these three demo songs the band had found the formula to the kind of music they wanted to create.

No more were they a demo band either, Regain Records signed Trendkill for a release of their debut album that later would be named "No longer buried". In the summer of 2005 the band entered Studio Mega and recorded ten songs, nine of them ending up on the album. Erik Månsson wrote all music for "No longer buried" and Adrian Westin handled the lyrics alone. Olle Carlsson took the photos for the album illustrations and produced a video for the song "Break the silence". The release date was set to 21 November, 2005. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trendkill">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.