Trey Lorenz (born January 19, 1969 in Florence, South Carolina) is an African American singer and songwriter.

Lorenz began his career supporting singer Mariah Carey on her first promotional tour in 1990, and the following year he provided background vocals on her album Emotions. Lorenz again served as Carey's backing singer on her 1992 appearance on the television show MTV Unplugged, where he and Carey sang a cover of the Jackson 5's "I'll Be There" (1970). Their performance was released as a single that went to number one in the United States.

Lorenz was subsequently offered a record deal and recorded a critically successful self-titled debut album. The single "Someone to Hold" (co-written and co-produced by Carey) peaked at number nineteen on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 singles chart. The album itself, however, performed poorly and only peaked at #111 on the Billboard 200 albums chart, and 
Lorenz was dropped by his label.

Trey returned to a career in background vocals, working for artists such as TLC, the late Selena, and Usher. He began to support Mariah Carey on her albums and concert tours again in 1997, including a featured spot in the 2003 Charmbracelet World Tour, and he recorded the songs, "Make You Happy" for the Men in Black soundtrack, which he co-wrote with Carey and Cory Rooney, and "I'm Still Not Over You" for the Money Train soundtrack. He was signed to Carey's short-lived imprint label, MonarC, and to Jermaine Dupri's Atlanta-based So So Def Records label, but never put out any music under the label.

'Trey's second album, Mr. Mista, was released on September 16, 2006. Among the songs on the new album, is 'See You Sometime,' a song Lorenz sang during the Charmbracelet World Tour. Lorenz launched his second album during the time he was prominently featured in Carey's 2006 The Adventures of Mimi Tour, doing background vocals and singing three songs -"Never Too Much", "A House Is Not a Home", and "Crazy," during one of her many costume changes.

In 2011 Lorenz has also found great success with the release two dance singles, DJ Harry Choo Choo featuring Trey Lorenz “Is This Time Goodbye” and the #1 UK dance record “Can I Love U More” by DJ Tony Moran featuring Trey Lorenz.

 Presently, Trey is working on new music in between rehearsals with Carey. Lorenz. He is simultaneously recording an urban, pop, dance and a forthcoming gospel project, which he anxiously is looking forward to releasing. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trey+Lorenz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.