Hailing from the Zürich area in Switzerland, Tribal write rock songs and ballads full of emotions, ranging from politics involvement to gloomy memories. They write and sing their lyrics in English and self-produce their records.

Founded in August 2003 by Mark Rossi (guitars), Greg Bailey (vocals) and Üse Müller (bass guitar), Tribal later added drummer Andy Gantenbain (drums) to complete their line-up. Most of the year 2004 was spent playing live in clubs and composing and recording their first tracks. Among them, the audience-swinging Feed the Public and the melancholy ballad Daddy were recorded as their first demo CD.

In april 2005, after several live shows, they released their first (and only) live album "Live at  C4 - The Official Bootleg".

In November  2005, TRIBAL released their first studio Album. With "Cardboard Heroes" the boys  presented a varied rock album. This contains, for example, the hymn-like "Feed the Public", the melancholy ballad"  Daddy", for which they also produce a video clip, and the arena-rock tune "Free". Despite modest means of production and the fact that the album is near a live recording,  there are lots of positive comments from the trade press.in example by the German print magazines "Heavy" and "Breakout". Some concerts at clubs  and festivals are played. 

In 2007 the band comes back with  their promotional single "Higher". Again,  the trade press is considering the band with praise and  speaks of "first class rock music at its best!" (Sleaze-Metal.com) . The title track and the second song "Holy" are kept very catchyand spherical. The two tracks reflect exactly what TRIBAL is: Emotional Rock! Various concerts are following. Among  other gigs, the band plays as support for Oni Logan (Lynch Mob). 

After a very intensive pre-production, the guys end up in the Empire Studios in Germany at the end of 2008, where they record their second album  "Corner Of A Circle" together with Rolf Munkes (Razorback, Empire, Majesty).  This work is released in September 2009. 

With the new version of "Higher" from that album, the band achieves the jump into the rotation of the Swiss radio stations for the first time. The song will is beeing released as a digital single with three bonus  tracks. In Germany, the  harder songs like "Jump Off The Bridge" and "Holy" are played by some independant radio stations. The Metal Hammer speaks of "a possible TRIBAL epidemic“.

In August 2011, scarce  three years later, the four Swiss are barricading  themselfs back into the premises at  Empire Studios with their personal   producer Rolf Munkes about to rock for their third album "I-Dentity". After the intense recording sessions for three months, there are again 13 songs on the new CD. Heavy as lead and modern rock parts alternate with melancholic,  sometimes psychedelic passages. Tribal present with "I-Dentity" a catchy,  sometimes playful and epic piece of silver, whose melodies are invariably  set  in the mind of the listener. The release party is be held  in  May 2012. 

With  "Die Kraft ist in Dir" the quartet sends a track sung completely in Ger-man language for the first time.This is launched in April 2012 as a digital single. 

Discography:

2004Feed The Public (Demo)
2005Live At C4 - The Official Bootleg (Live-Album)
2005Cardboard Heroes
2007 Higher (Promo-Single)
2009 Higher (Version 2009 - Digital Only) 
2009Corner Of A Circle 
2012Die Kraft ist in Dir (Single / Digital Only)
2012I-Dentity 

Video clips:

2005 - Daddy (available on the album "Cardboard Heroes")
2011 - No Regrets (available on the album "Corner Of A Circle")
2014 - My Identity (available on the album "I-Dentity"













 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tribal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.