Brian Trifon is the front man for Trifonic, a San Francisco based electronic act that seamlessly fuses experimental production wizardry with beautiful melodies and traditional song structures to craft music that is simultaneously unexpected and accessible.

Brian began his music career as a guitarist and programmer for famed electronic artist BT. Brian toured nationally with BT and contributed additional music, programming and guitars to several films, TV shows, and to BT’s album This Binary Universe (2006).

In 2005 Brian joined forces with his older brother Laurence to create Trifonic. Trifonic’s first track, a breaks mash-up called “Bored on Your Backside”, was the top vote getter in WIRED Magazine’s 2005 Freestyle remix contest. Trifonic dropped its debut album Emergence in 2008, a critically-acclaimed collage of downtempo, dub, IDM, post-rock and ambient music that established Trifonic’s distinctly unique sound. Emergence’s standout track “Parks On Fire” was featured on Hybrid’s compilation album Soundsystem 01 (2008), and several of the tracks have appeared in TV shows like CSI: Crime Scene Investigation (CBS) and 90210 (CW).

Trifonic followed up Emergence with the remix EP Remergence (2008) and the EP Growing Distance (2009). Trifonic has also collaborated with top electronic artists on tracks including “Can You Hear Me (Trifonic Remix)” by Hybrid (2010), “With Angels (Trifonic Remix)” by Hecq (2011), and “Quadcore” by Boom Jinx, Andrew Bayer, Matt Lange, and Trifonic (2011, Anjunadeep).

In addition to his work with Trifonic, Brian has contributed music to multiple award-winning video game soundtracks include Assassin’s Creed II, Assassin’s Creed Brotherhood, Assassin’s Creed Revelations, Halo: Combat Evolved Anniversary, Borderlands, Borderlands 2, and Ghost Recon: Future Soldier.

Trifonic’s second full-length album Ninth Wave will be available November 13, 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trifonic">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.