Trigger Renegade originated in Santa Cruz, CA releasing their first 7" E.P. entitled "Shootout" in 2005.  Founding members Greg Imhoff and Blake Meahl grew up next door to each other in Pasadena, CA and have played in bands together since childhood.  In 2003, they met drummer Sean Ford in Santa Cruz while they were attending their first year of college at UC Santa Cruz.  Originally Blake Meahl played lead guitar and vocals and Ian Alden, another childhood companion, played rhythm guitar and backup vocals.  A local Santa Cruz teenager, McCoy Gurmin heard their original EP and propositioned the band for a position as a lead guitarist.  Although McCoy was only 16 when he joined the band, his unrivaled talent brought the band to a new level of musicianship that was previously hindered by Meahl's inability to play guitar and sing simultaneously.  Blake Meahl's "Sassy" front man attitude gained the band local notoriety and he was often seen sporting a gun holster equipped with a microphone.  
Under the production of Black Top Fade's Chris Naab, Trigger Renegade recorded their first full length album entitled 'Destroy Your Mind' in 2007.  The album was critically well received, earning Chuck Eddy's #3 pick for best album of 2007 in Billboard's Critics' Picks.  Stylistically, their debut album bears a strong resemblance to the harmonized guitar riffing of traditional heavy metal bands like Iron Maiden and Thin Lizzy, while brandishing the self-destructive party anthem as the thematic centerpiece with such tracks as "Damage", "Part of the Process" (which is credited as a Morcheeba cover even though it has different lyrics!), and the epic title track "Destroy Your Mind".  
Recently, McCoy has departed from the band to pursue other interests and Meahl has taken over on lead guitar once again.  More recently recorded material is available on the internet, although it is unknown when a new release is to be expected.  They are currently cited as residing in Los Angeles, although previously were claiming residence in "Homeless, California".   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trigger+Renegade">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.