There at least six groups called Trilogy.

1. Trilogy was a vocal trio hailing from New York City, USA. Its members were Duran Ramos (real name: Randy Duran Ramos), Angel DeLeon, and Joey Kid (real name: Jose Antonio Baez-Perez). The trio released a number of freestyle, house and hip hop singles in the late 1980s and early 90s. The trio were the main vocalists on the C+C Music Factory 1994 album Anything Goes!.

2. TriIogy: A Maltese Trio, with a collection of operatic ballad. They are seen as one of the most popular Maltese Bands since 2005. In 2007 their song "Starlight" came 2nd in the Malta Song For Europe contest, in which the winner goes to Eurovision representing Malta. They were beaten by Olvia Lewis (Malta Song For Europe Veteran). In 2009 they also tried again, sucesseding to get to the final with "The Song in your heart". But failing to make the top 3. The eventual winner Chiara, is a eurovision legend. 

3. An obscure folkrock trio who released on album, 'It Starts Again' in 1970. Delicate haunting/quirky songs that creep under your skin after a few plays; jazzy & psychy leanings, great mixed harmonies. Soft & beautiful but far less wimpy than most in this vein, in no small part due to the arrangements which never get into the dreaded sappy-chorus mode. The album was produced by Andy Wiswell, who did the same for fellow GWP label mates Sarofeen And Smoke (beautifullies)

4. Trilogy was a German progressive rock band that only released one album, Here It Is in 1979.

5. A heavy/power metal band from Perth, Western Australia formed by ex-Saracen members Jon Ryder and Pete Thompson, who teamed up with ex-Black Alice guitarist Jamie Page in the early 80's, and released two albums: Life On Earth 1985 (private press) and Next In Line in 1986 (Axe Killer Records, French label)  Although the later was also self-released under the Saracen name also!   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trilogy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.