One idea and a jam session is all it took for three of Sydney’s best young jazz musicians to create fresh, inimitable music. Laurence Pike (drums), Adrian Klumpes (piano/keyboards) and Ben ‘Donny’ Waples (double bass) formed Triosk with a common objective: to improvise and compose jazz-based music in which loops and samples played an active and equal role. They continue to search for ways to combine the sound, synchronicity and unity of purpose of a great jazz piano trio (such as Bill Evans Trio c. 1961) with non-jazz compositional forms, spontaneous improvisation and the textures and processes of minimalism and electronic music. In that regard, production also becomes a key component of their music. This can involve the thoughtful layering of both acoustic and electronic sounds and manipulating the natural sounds of their instruments, whether in a live performance or in the studio.

In 2001, Triosk found a love for the music of Jan Jelinek, in particular the sound of “Loop-finding Jazz Records” which suited the electronic layer of the music. Later that year when Jelinek came to Sydney, an alliance based on mutual musical interests was forged. The beautiful irony is that both Jan and Triosk work towards similar musical goals, but from very different starting points. Jelinek sampled old jazz vinyl to create moody atmospheric pieces, while Triosk sampled Jelinek to meet a similar end, albeit using acoustic instruments. This relationship founded a musical collaboration between them, resulting in their first album together “1+3+1” [~scape020]. 

Triosk’s on-going motivation is to search for new ways to improvise, compose and interact with electronic layering and manipulation. A new release, due 2004, will feature their own compositions and improvisations, including original pieces based on loops from Jan’s album "loop-finding-jazz-records”.

taken from the ~scape website <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Triosk+meets+Jan+Jelinek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.