Chuck and Frank started Triphammer with the idea of what they wanted in a band. They started jamming and began putting together songs that would end up being on their debut demo tape. The two joined forces with Dan and John from the band Rumblestiltskin and bassist Bill Palmer. Who added the finishing touches on the ideas that Frank and Chuck had started. Just before the band was to record their first demo they parted ways with bassist Bill Palmer and in came 17 yr old bassist wonder kid Ralph Whittemore. The demo tape It's About Time recorded in 1992 consisted of 4 songs The Life That's Left, The Real World, Subject:Human (which was a Rumblestiltskin song that Dan wrote) and Under One God? The tape sold close to 1,000 copies worldwide in the underground, and recieved high praise in Metal Maniacs Firing Squad demo reviews as well as many other publications and fanzines around the globe. They played shows up and down the east coast opening for such acts as Mucky Pup, Kings X, Overkill, Wargasm, Savatage, Scatterbrain and many others. The band went in to record their second tape which was never officially released at that time unofficially titled Demo 1994. It also consisted of 4 songs which showed a more stream lined stripped down approach with a little more edge and even more melody. The songs Loaded Gun, Reflections, An Early Grave and Flies. This tape made its way through underground tape traders and eventually found its way into the hands of Hellhound Records in Germany. After an impromptu show case for Hellhound contract negotiations started. Sadly inner demons ripped through the band which ultimately tore it apart. Chuck and Triphammer parted ways and filling the drum chair was Barry Spillberg from the recently disbanded Wargasm. The band recorded a demo and shortly thereafter changed their name to Every Second which took a slightly more hard core approach. Chuck joined another local band called Osiris which he played in for about a year. In 1996 he auditioned for Sacred Reich and joined them for their US and European tours for the Heal CD. In 2003 Triphammer reunited after almost 10 years! The show featured their original songs many of which hadn't been played live that often even during their previous time together. Along with many of the bands favorite songs from bands like Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, KISS, Aerosmith, Black Sabbath, Rush, Thin Lizzy and many others. They were joined by friends onstage for many of the cover songs. An amazing turnout for a band that hadn't been around in 10 years gave them all they needed to give it another try. Since that show the band has played a number of shows and have opened for Meliah Rage and Life of Agony. The two original demos have since been remastered and released on CD with liner notes from Wargasm bassist and vocalist Bob Mayo. The band is currently working on new songs and will continue to play out and begin working on new songs soon for a full length CD release. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Triphammer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.