Bandcamp | SoundCloud | Facebook | VK

TRNA are the pioneers of celestial blackgaze. This incredible blackened post-rock 3-piece from Saint Petersburg, Russian Federation formed after the breakup of post-black band Princ Persii.  Andrey Novozhilov (guitar) and Sergey Tikhomirov (drums) were joined by Anton Gataullin (bass) shortly after forming the band and had their first rehearsal as a trio in November, 2013.  The band played the first live show in February 2014 supporting Show Me A Dinosaur.

Their debut album “Pattern of Infinity” was recorded at BST studio in Saint Petersburg from September, 2014 till January, 2015 by Mikhail Skurikhin . It was released digitally and on CD on February 23, 2015 and met with a few wildly enthusiastic reviews  which greatly motivated the band. That same month, Trna went on tour with friends Show Me A Dinosaur with Anton Gataullin now as a permanent member of both bands and playing two sets a night.

When they returned from the tour, Trna started working on their next album but an increasingly fraught relationship delayed recording. The band joined Show Me A Dinosaur for another tour  but needed to find a replacement for Sergey, whose private life was at loggerheads with their tour schedule. Good friend and accomplished drummer Nikita Bobrov from Moscow luminaries Dry River  stepped in for the tour.

The trio continued to evolve their sound and “Lose Yourself To Find Peace” was recorded between June and July of 2016 with Mikhail “just add some echo” Kurochkin. The album was released digitally and on CD on September 23, 2016 and met with rave reviews.

After recording, Sergey Tikhomirov officially left the band and was replaced by Austen‘s Timur “the pummeler” Yusupov. The band signed to Elusive Sound on October 19, 2016. The album was included in Arctic Drones’ 50 Favourite Releases of 2016 and featured at number 3 in Post-Rock Essentials Top 30 Releases of 2016. “Lose Yourself To Find Peace” was released on vinyl on August 25, 2017 and became Elusive Sound’s fastest selling album.

TRNA released their third album “Earthcult” digitally on 5 March, 2018. Recorded and mastered by the brilliant Mikhail Kurochkin and featuring new drummer Timur Yusupov, “Earthcult” offers 65 minutes of pure catharsis inducing celestial blackened post split over 4 epic tracks fueled with raw emotions.

“This album represents the sentiment of the unity of man and nature. The realization that our roots are entwined, that our everyday concerns feel insignificant before the vastness of the universe, nature and life itself. Living in a metropolis and endlessly socializing, we forget who we are. We lose sight of the sacred bond we have with nature, how it nourishes us physically, emotionally, and spiritually. We should desperately try to restore that bond”.

Elusive Sound will release “Earthcult” on vinyl. TRNA will be performing in Saint-Petersburg with Show Me A Dinosaur on 23 March at the Fish Fabrique before heading off with Pwyll on their Earthcult Tour that will begin in Tallinn on 31 March, 2018.

Discography:
2015 - Pattern of Infinity
2016 - Lose Yourself to Find Peace
2018 - Earthcult
2021 - Istok

Trna are:

Andrey - guitar
Anton - bass
Timur - drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.