There are several bands who share the same name:

1) A Norwegian black metal band. It was founded in 1992, when 14-year-old Stian André Hinderson (Arnesen) aka Nagash (Lex Icon for The Kovenant) started writing music with Glaurung and Fafnir. When Glaurung and Fafnir left the project, Nagash continued Troll as a solo project and released Trollstorm over Nidingjuv in 1995 and Drep de Kristne in 1996. The latter album (the title means "Kill the Christians") had an emphasis on anti-Christian lyrics. 

Following the release of Drep de kristne, Nagash spent more time working with other bands such as Dimmu Borgir (bass giutar, back vocal), Astennu project Carpe Tenebrum (lead vocal) and his other band Covenant (now The Kovenant)  that he started with Blackheart (Psy Coma). Troll was inactive until 2000. By that time Fafnir, now under the name Sinister Minister Twice, had rejoined Troll. Other members were also added, making Troll a group and no longer a solo project. With Nagash concentrating on guitar and synth, Troll released The Last Predators in 2000 and Universal in 2001.

Significant progress took place between Drep de kristne and Last Predators. Lyrical content was now mainly English, and the imagery revolved less around Satanic symbols and hate for Christians. The music became less grim and more symphonic and industrial over the years.

In the summer of 2007, Vold (also in Blodspor, Fatal Demeanor, Whip) tricked both Nagash and Ygg (Whip, 2 Skæve Fyre) into starting up the band again. January 2008, Exilis joined on synth, and by july fo the same year, Tlaloc (Fatal Demeanor, Kaldt, Thornbound) joined as second guitarist. The band then tried to focus on a more Trollstorm... and Drep de Kristne kind of music, going back to the more melodical black metal, rather than industrial metal. 

Their upcoming album Neo-Satanic Supremacy will be released in 2010 on Napalm Records, and will contain songs like Til Helvete med alt ("To hell with everything") and Alt for Satan ("Everything for Satan"). 

In early 2011 Vold however left Troll to focus more on his  Blodspor band. Sturt (aka Jens B. Johansen) (Whip, Nattefrost) became a new Troll bassplayer. 

First Troll live performance EVER was held at the Inferno Festival in Oslo, Norway in 2009. The band has plans on going on tour after that.

Trolls’ current lineup:

Nagash (Stian André Hinderson )- Guitar & Lead Vocal
Sturt (Jens B. Johansen) - Bass 
Tlaloc (Henrik Vissmark) - Guitar & Vocal
Ygg (Raymond Kåsereff)  - Drums
Exilis (Espen Hosarøygard)  - Synth & Keyboards

Previous members:
Vold (Andreas Stenvoll) - Bass & Vocal
Jan Axel Blomberg - Drums
Sinister Minister Twice - Vocal
Glaurung - Bass
Bjørn Boge - Bass


The official websites : www.myspace.com/troll ; www.facebook.com/trollofficial
The Fan sites: www.myspace.com/trollfanzone ; www.youtube.com/user/TrollFanzone



2) A highly appreciated Swedish pop group that toured Europe and its hitlists in the end of the 1980’s and the beginning of the 1990’s. The girls were discovered by Jonas Warnebring in 1985 and released their first LP called Stoppa Sabbet in 1986. In those days band members Annica, Erica, Helena, Jenny, Monica, Nina and Petra called the band “Trollrock”, and they wore troll suits on stage.

In order to claim international success the name was shortened to Troll and the suits were dropped. Their ever increasing audience danced many nights away to hits like It’s A Miracle (1987), Calling On Your Heart and On A Kangaroo (both 1988). The bands fame went from big to super-huge when they teamed up with the competent producer trio Norell/Oson/Bard.

Bard wrote their most highly beloved song, the immortal hit Jimmy Dean, that blasted through the charts in spring 1990. After releasing the LP’s Troll (1989) and Put Your Hand In The Air (1990) the band toured Europe and USA for almost nine months 1990-1991. During the early 90’s Troll had several chart-toppers, and especially the hits Midsummer Night and The Greatest Kid In Town are worth mentioning. To the fans great shock and awe the band broke apart in 1995. Every year since, in summer a big “Troll Meet” is held in Falun, the bands home town.

___


3)  Norwegian Black Metal band called Troll originating from 
Åfjord, Trøndelag, responsible for the release of a single demo released in 1994 . 
https://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Troll/62933


4) Troll is also a heavy metal band from New Hampshire, United States, who released 2 albums before changing their name to Knightstorm. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Troll">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.