Troop is an R&B group from Pasadena, California. Troop has had four number one singles and ten top ten singles on the Billboard R&B Charts. They have also completed five albums, which include three certified gold and one certified platinum album.

The group began in the late '80s after they won a televised talent contest that later drew interest from record labels. Troop, consisting of childhood friends Steve Russell, Allen McNeil, John Harreld, Rodney Benford, and Reggie Warren, signed to Atlantic Records and released their debut single Mamacita from their self titled album in 1988. "Mamacita" reached #2 on the Billboard's R&B Charts.

After the release of their debut album, Troop released Attitude, which included songs such as Spread My Wings and All I Do is Think of You (a Jackson 5 cover), which were both #1 on the Billboard R&B charts and remained in the top 10 on the charts for several weeks. Attitude was certified platinum in 1990, afterward, Troop released their third album Deepa in 1992 from which the single Sweet November made #1 on the Billboard's R&B charts. The group followed up with two more albums A Lil' Sumpin' Sumpin' (1994) and Mayday (1998), both of which were re-released in 2005.

After releasing "Mayday" in 1998, Troop took a hiatus as individual members worked behind the scenes on various writing and producing projects, collaborations, and other business endeavors.

In 2004, Troop returned and began touring the United States and finishing up their sixth album. Since returning, Troop has headlined a number of shows and also shared the stage with artists they toured with in the past such as Boyz II Men, Brian McKnight, Keith Sweat, Silk, Mario, and Jon B..

Troop has also been showcased on The Late Show with David Letterman, Soul Train, The Arsenio Hall Show, Showtime at the Apollo, and appeared in the feature film New Jack City singing a cappella. Additionally, the group appeared on the New Jack City soundtrack with Queen Latifah and Levert, in a medley featuring cover versions of The O'Jays' For the Love of Money and Stevie Wonder's Living For The City.

In October 2006, Troop contacted the Internet Radio Station (The Mixx) and have worked together to make The Mixx the radio home of Troop. Steve Russell dubs the singing voices of several minor characters (among them doo-wop singer Little Albert and the five brothers who make up the Jackson 5 pastiche "The Campbell Connection") in the 2006 film version of the Broadway musical Dreamgirls. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Troop">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.