Kyle Costill had a vision in 2004, and the result is Trouble Everyday. In under a year, the band started to quickly gain attention as the local band to see, with their tight sound and high intensity. Soon after, they were playing with well known artists such as the Yeah Yeah Yeahs, The Buzzcocks, Franz Ferdinand, Saves The Day, Battles, and The Kills. This culminated in the release of the band's first album Days vs Nights, which was incredibly well received by audiences and critics alike, receiving glowing praise in elite indie magazines including Pitchfork, Drowned in Sound, Stylus (where it received "Album of the Week") and Cokemachineglow (where it received "#19 of the 100 best albums of 2004).

To support the record, the band independently booked 2 tours in Great Britain, playing sold out shows and doing live radio performances for XFM and other high profile stations in Great Britain. Trouble Everyday caught the attention of the legendary BBC radio programmer John Peel, who featured the band on one of his last broadcasts. Back on the other side of the pond, Trouble Everyday intrigued multi platinum Island artists The Killers, who were happy to take the band on the North American leg of their incredibly successful Hot Fuss tour.

Not long after that, Trouble Everyday were doing showcase shows in Los Angeles, Toronto, and New York, for interested labels like Sony, Island, V2, & EMI. Still, Costill thought something was missing, and decided that the band needed a retooling. It was time to enlist new members, redefine and overdrive Trouble Everyday's already energetic and successful sound. After taking a year for his family life, and beautiful daughter, Costill reinvented the band for the next decade.2007 now sees the release of Trouble Everyday's second album, On the Way to Disaster. The early stages of promoting this record see TE exploiting new media by performing the new record live, and in the renowned virtual world Second Life. The ability to reach out to new audiences world wide through innovative media has ignited the band's passion.

Trouble Everyday loves to playing live more than anything, in any way possible, and will continue to be at the forefront of music and technology. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Trouble+Everyday">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.