Rock / Alternative / Grunge 

Truant is an alternative rock band. Their musical genre has often been classified as Hard Rock or Grunge. The band originally formed in 2005 in Baltimore, MD going by the name “Vendetta” with Drummer: Josh Shuman, Guitarist/Vocalist: Rick Logan, Guitarist: Clint Logan and Bassist: Antron; the band name Truant was only adopted later, after they already had songs written and polished and were looking for a replacement drummer. Scott Rothstein, who auditioned while living in Marina Del Rey, CA, made the cut to be Truant’s next drummer and hopefully would complete the line up. After working with Scott Rothstien for four months things seemed to be okay, and he was really meshing with the band, that was until we started to run out of money to survive which we thought was going to be the end of Truant all together. So we ran out of money. Clint and Rick decided that they couldn’t survive in Hollywood, CA anymore living off of mozzarella string cheese and lays potato chips so they headed east to where it was a little more affordable and they could build a new fan base. Their motive was and, is to keep Truant alive. Antron stayed in Hollywood, CA but still works with Truant as their permanant bassist. Thanks to Antron we came into contact with Mark Bearman, another great drummer which worked with Truant on Violence in a Cage. Mark is Truant's permanant and final drummer. Now about the band name. The idea to name the band “Truant” came from the lyrics of Pearl Jam’s song titled “Immortality”. The song was being performed by one of Truant’s all time favorite bands “Seether” on their live acoustic album called “One Cold Night” filmed/recorded in Philadelphia, PA at Grape Street Pub in 2006. After hearing the way Seether performed a mesmerizing acoustic version of “Immortality”, the sincerity and meaning of the words in the song found relation with the band and merited "Truant" as a band name sized to fit perfectly. The members of Truant are most known for their music obviously, however they are also known for how interactive they are with their fans. The band always finds time for the listeners because they are the ones who ultimately keep the music alive and kicking. Truant really appreciates their fan base and will always appreciate their support. Fans come first. Truant strives on being the best they can possibly be; in hopes to take their talents to the next serious step (take it to the masses). Truant will hit hard, with an impact that will make waves and turn heads. Truant wants all to know that they will accept nothing less than success in their musical career, and that has been the case to this day. Truant is a crowd pleaser, and is one of those bands among many who sticks out. The music is tight and melodic... the kind that sticks in your head, yet never gets old or irritating. Truant is definatly a band that will last for many years. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Truant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.