1. Singapore death metal band.

Forged through the bonds of friendship and alcohol,burning with the fiery passion to rekindle the dying embers of a declining music scene, TRUTH BE KNOWN (TBK) was born in 2005. Hailing from the tiny island of Singapore, TBK brandishes a uniquely local brand of death metal and aptly draws its title from an old Napalm Death song. Featuring members from several renowned Singapore acts like Bhelliom and Kaliyuga, the band sees Damien and John delivering brutal guitar riffs and wailing leads; Arul keeping the groove with pounding bass lines and Gene at the helm of the drum kit. To top it off, TBK’s music is further driven by Subash’s growls and hard-line socio-political lyrics. Influenced by various foreign extreme metal acts like At The Gates, Slayer, Napalm Death and Sodom, the band has kept its sound distinct - old school Singapore death metal. No glitz, no frills, no fashion and no trends, TBK has performed locally and overseas, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake. With a debut release on 08/08/08, TBK is set to make waves. THE TRUTH WILL BE KNOWN. As of 2009,TRUTH BE KNOWN is a 4 piece band as John and Arul have left the band.This time round,Damien will be handling all the guitar duties and Joshua is our new bassist.

2. Truth Be Known is the performing name of Michael Esgate, a lyricist and UK hip hop artist from Crewe in the North West of England. 
 Michael was born in Crewe in 1987 and first starting writing lyrics and storytelling through his music in 2005. In late 2005 Michael met Jason "JayJay" Estridge - an established musician and producer with a recording studio in the local area. 
 JayJay immediately recognised the potential of the young, unpolished artist and Michael and JayJay worked closely together for over 2 years developing Michael's distinctive musical style and flow. Michael received local acclaim for his music - performing live to raise money for Children In Need, receiving airplay on local radio (Radio Stoke) and performing in local schools and other venues. Michael also enjoyed a regular spot at a local hip hop night in Stoke-on-Trent. 
In early 2008, Michael and JayJay's music came to the attention of a representative of Big Music - a young, dynamic independent record label with offices in the local area. A meet was set up to discuss the music Michael and JayJay had created. Within weeks Michael had signed a recording contract and JayJay had been offered a senior position at the label. 
 Almost straight away work started on the first release - an E.P. called 'The Birds & The Booze EP' containing 4 original tracks and 2 remixes. 
 The E.P. was released in July, Michael has started recording his first album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Truth+Be+Known">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.