In March 2008 Truth Corroded released 'Upon The Warlords Crawl' in Australia through Truth Inc Records ( a label established in 2005 and run by members of Truth Corroded and Double Dragon that now represents several Australian heavy music acts ) The album was recorded in the bands home state of South Australia at Soundhouse and Slaughterhouse Studio's by Kyle Bloksgaard and mixed and mastered in Sweden at Black Lounge Studio by Scar Symmetry guitarist Jonas Kjellegren. The album received critical acclaim from online and print media within Australia and abroad, with comparisons to bands such as Lamb Of God, Testament and The Haunted and an average rating of 8-9/10 ( see review section below ) The band followed up the album release with a tour of Australia from May-September.
 
In September 2008  'Upon The Warlords Crawl' was released in Asia through Singapore label Mourning Sound Records ( who also released the bands last album 'Our Enemy Is The Weapon' in 2006 ) Truth Corroded followed the album's release with the FULL BATTLE ORDER TOUR OF DUTY ASIA alongside Singaporean label mates Bhelliom in Oct/Nov. The tour saw the band perform Hong Kong, China and Thailand and support BEHEMOTH in Beijing. The band were also the first ever Australian heavy music act to tour China. The tour was a huge success and the band aim to continue to build and expand its profile in Asia. " Most bands from Australia aim to get their music over to Europe or the US. While we share that aim, we see Asia as vital and want a greater focus for the development of heavy music in the region" comments Truth Corroded's bassist and Truth Inc Records founder Greg Damon " Alongside our Asian label Mourning Sound Records and our steadily growing network in the region we aim to establish a regional market for heavy music bands from Australia and Asia and  further develop future touring oppurtunities. We have covered Singapore, Hong Kong, China and Thailand but still have many more destinations for our music to reach. Asia has some excellent bands and awesome crowds, and we look foward to getting over there as often as we can". Truth Corroded now aim to tour India, Japan, Taiwan, South Korea, Indonesia, The Phillipines and return to China and Thailand in 2009.
 
Since the bands reformation in 2003, Truth Corroded have supported international heavyweights such as Lamb Of God, Chimaira, In Flames, God Forbid, Sepultura, Dark Tranquility and most recently Behemoth in Beijing, China. This builds on previous supports alongside Strapping Young Lad, Sick Of It All and Vision Of Disorder. Truth Corroded have also performed alongside some of Australia's best heavy music acts including Psycroptic, Picture The End, Alchemist, Daysend, Terrorust, Blood Duster, Devolved, Mortal Sin and Double Dragon and Australian festivals such as The Big Day Out, Overcranked, Metal For The Brain, Against The Grain and Metal Stock. 
 
Truth Corroded play dark and extreme thrash metal inspired by late 80's and early 90's thrash bands such as Sepultura, Dark Angel, Testament, Kreator, Exodus, Forbidden, Violence and Slayer and also bands such as Neurosis, Lamb Of God, Napalm Death, Gojira, Mastodon and Isis. From the sheer brutality of the opening track 'Crown The Apocalypse' to the machine like groove of 'When God Is Murder' to the dark outro of 'Despair Your Black Earth', Truth Corroded offer the bands strongest album to date on 'Upon The Warlords Crawl'. The album demonstrates a sound that is tribute to the above mentioned influences while also developing a style that is not only true to its roots but aiming to take the thrash sound to further extremes. The band aim to tour extensively through 2009 in both Asia and Australia, while also looking to expand its reach over to the US and Europe.The band will also start  writing and recording the follow up to 'Upon The Warlords Crawl'


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Truth+Corroded">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.