1) Tùatha dé Danann is a brazilian folk metal band:

The band comes from the city of Varginha, Minas Gerais, Brazil,  which is an important historical region because of the fight against the Imperial domination for Brazil's independence. And the violinist comes from Curitiba city, state of Paraná. The band's first name was Pendragon, and they began their activities 1995 intending to do a different kind of music, with no comparison in the scene, mixing Heavy Metal with the Celtic and medieval music. Their first demo tape was released in 1996, named "The Last Pendragon", and this work got very good reviews in the specialized media, mainly because of the unique sonority. Afterwards they changed the band name to Tùatha dé Danann, which was perfect to represent their thematic proposal. The name comes from the Celtic mythology; it means "People of the Goddess Danu". The Tùatha dé Danann were one of the mythical races that settled in Ireland before the arrival of the Milesians, the ancestors of modern Gaels. The Dananns were descendants of the goddess Danu. The Tùatha dé Dananns were a race of deities as well as race of heroes. They were skilled in art and science, poetry and magic. 

In the year of 1998 Tùatha dé Danann recorded the second demo "Faeryage", totally dived into the magic and beauty of the Celtic music, including instruments like flutes, violins, viols and mandolins, but supported by a heavy sound. "Faeryage" impressed everybody, pleasing the audiences and the specialized media. As a result the band signed their first contract with the record label "Heavy Metal Rock". 

By the end of 1999, was released the EP "Tùatha dé Danann" with four new songs plus "Faeryage" as bonus track. This material kept the same characteristic with the magic beauty of the Celtic and medieval music mixed to the Metal style, with melodic and guttural vocals side by side, added to the sound of flutes and a lot of delirium. This EP brought a great recognition to Tùatha dé Danann in the whole country. Finally, 2001, in October, the 'debut' CD comes out. Entitled "TingaralatingaDun", this album is an invitation to the total delirium in the land of the magic, where all the elements of the nature walk hand in hand. 

Presenting ten previously un-released songs, recorded with a great production job, "TingaralatingaDun" is plenty of sounds of flutes, mandolins, violins, and guiding wonderful trips to the Celtic world, also referred as subject in the lyrics. The album conquered more fans and again the specialized media. The popularity arrived, and so the invitation for presentations in several festival and venues around the whole country, placing Tùatha dé Danann in a prominence position. The CD was licensed for France, Russia, and other countries, and tends a great acceptance of the European public. In the same period the band took part in one of the most important projects of the Brazilian Metallic scene, the thematic album "William Shakespeares Hamlet", recording the song "The Last Words". Once again Tuatha de Danann could show their essence in a singular way. 

The year 2002 is marked by the release of the EP "The Delirium Has Just Began" a kind of experimental work that was also released in France, obtaining an excellent acceptance with the public and the media. 

In 2004 the label record Paradoxx Music released their new work, the album "Trova di Danú". Tùatha dé Danann remained based in their strong influences of Celtic and folk music, what forged their personalized style, with the combination of Rock-Heavy Metal. Once more, with the use of instruments not commonly played in rock music, such as violins, viols, flutes, bagpipes, harmonicas, they made a trip through the world of pure feeling and magic music. Free from any kind of labels, they are just Tuatha de Danann.

In 2008 Martin Walkyier (ex Skyclad vocalist and ex Sabbat ) played on a Brazilian Tour with Tuatha de Dannan Skyclads songs but in 2011 the band ended its activities, then since 2012 they reunited to play some sporadic shows.

In 2014 the band officially reunited and recorded an EP with two new songs ''We're Back'' and ''Dawn of a New Sun'' to give fans a taste of what will come on the new album that will be released later this year.

2) Tuatha de Danann is also a French coldwave band active in the late 80', that has released a tape called Eclectique and several other songs appearing on various coldwave compilations. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tuatha+de+Danann">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.