Tullycraft was born out of the ashes of two Harriet Records cult bands: Crayon and Wimp Factor 14.  Sean Tollefson, Jeff Fell (both of Crayon), and Gary Miklusek (Wimp Factor 14) hooked up in 1995. They are considered to be one of the forefathers of the American twee pop movement

In October 1995, they recorded a batch of songs with Pat Maley at YoYo Studios in Olympia, WA.  Out of that first session came the debut single on Harriet Records and an instant indie pop classic - "Pop Songs Your New Boyfriend's too Stupid to Know About".  In 1996 they released their full length debut "Old Traditions, New Standards" on Harriet Records.  They followed up their first album with singles on labels from Japan, England, Germany, and the USA.  They then cemented their cult status by endless touring all over the United States, playing everywhere from house shows to universities, nightclubs to supermarket grand openings.

After a couple guest appearances with the band, Chris Munford (Incredible Force of Junior) joined Tullycraft in 1998.  Chris contributed keyboards, 2nd guitar and recording engineering to the 2nd full length album "City of Subarus" on Cher Doll Records. The entire record was recorded at Chris and Jeff's house across the street from a Subaru dealership.  After City of Subarus, Tullycraft toured the U.S. one and a half more times and then took an extended break from playing live and recording.  The time that followed saw the band mostly on hiatus - only playing festivals, Popfests, and the occasional YoYo-a-GoGo. Gary Miklusek (a founding member) left the band in 1999. At this point Tullycraft's fate was up in the air.

In 2001 Jeff, Chris, and Sean started playing together again and soon began working on new songs. Harold Hollingsworth (Sno*Boy), who had toured with the band between the first two albums (in 1997), was re-recruited to play 2nd guitar on the new material. The result was the 3rd proper full length Tullycraft album: "Beat, Surf, Fun" released on Magic Marker Records.  Tullycraft emerged from the extended absence with a batch of great new songs which included yet another indie pop classic "Twee."

On May 3, 2005, Tullycraft released their fourth album, "Disenchanted Hearts Unite". With a new line-up that includes Corianton Hale (taking over for Harold on 2nd guitar) and Jenny Mears on vocals.  The album included the indiepop anthems "Our Days In Kansas," "Stowaway" and "Every Little Thing."

On Oct 9 2007, the fifth Tullycraft album,  "Every Scene Needs A Center" was released on Magic Marker Records. The album spawned the singles "The Punks Are Writing Love Songs" and "Georgette Plays a Goth."


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tullycraft">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.