There are three bands that go by the name Tulsa.

1) Tulsa is a Basque/Spanish band from Bilbao/Madrid composed of  Miren Iza(voice and guitar), Alfredo Niharra (guitar),  Gabi (drums), Miguel Guzmán (bass and guitars) and Alberto Rodrigo (bass). They formed in 2002 after lead singer Miren Iza from the defunct riot grrl band Electrobikinis started writing songs and joined Alfredo Niharra on small concerts. They released their first LP on 2006: Sólo me has rozado" attaining critical acclaim. They show folk influences on both their instrumental arrangements and the quirkyly sung, detailed lyrics of Miren.

www.myspace.com/lavenganzadetulsa


2) Tulsa took its name from a book of photographs by Larry Clark. His pictures seem to be largely about a group of people he grew up with who had a hard time maintaining their curiosity for life. That's the intent of Tulsa's songs, lyrically and musically, staying hungry for life, upholding that curiosity.

The music that Tulsa creates is released via Park the Van Records, home to bands such as Dr. Dog, the Teeth, the Capitol Years, High Strung and many more. I Was Submerged is the first Tulsa release to find its way into the physical world (e.g., not a digital release). As comforting and timeless as its songs essentially are, they retain a certain melodic eeriness about them that could leave you feeling unsettled, were they not so impeccably crafted. A dreamy concoction of reverberated vocals and sepulchral guitars layered upon fervent percussion. The most defining touch: perhaps the asymmetrical tones of a Fender Rhodes, which cascade throughout the recordings.

Tulsa is:
Carter Tanton
Eric Wormwood
Greg Hatem
Marc Pinansky

http://www.parkthevan.com --> Tulsa




3) There's a punk band from San Francisco called Tulsa too...  They're pretty cool.

http://www.myspace.com/tulsa
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tulsa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.