There are 2 Artists under the name Tumor

a) TUMOR was founded in 1998 by Chris Pohl who is also known for his bands BlutEngel, Terminal Choice and Seelenkrank.
He was looking for an output for his more strange and agressive ideas in music and mind.
Those would not have fit in one of his other projects so he created TUMOR to live them out.
Tumor is electric dance music with a touch of electro and always with some samples from different movies and a crazy sense of humor. The first album was limited of just 1000 copies and created just by himself. It was sold without any label and became a success anyway.
This was the reason why he later signed a contract with Out of Line, the German label where he also already had Terminal Choice and later BlutEngel after Seelenkrank had to be put down.
So they released "Neues Fleisch" again, with some other tracks and new cover artwork.
That was the birth of TUMOR.
After that they made some more CDs and became very successful not only in Germany.
Live gigs were very rare and nearly never in Germany.
In the year 2005 they had their - like they said - last live show ever.
This was the first time that also Chris entered the stage.
The few gigs before were with a special live crew and really bloody live performances...a little like a freakshow ;)
Most of TUMORs music is just instrumental. The first time there were vocals in the music was on the album "Zombienation". Also on "Killer Tekkkno" and "Welcome back Asshole" are some tracks with his voice. The last output from Tumor was on the "Machineries of Joy IV" Sampler.
It's a song called "Töte alle" and can also be heard on this page.
You can get it directly at the Out of Line Shop or order at Fear Section shop and some other online mailorders. Anyway...we can lay back and wait what TUMOR will bring us in the future...

b) Tumor was also the name of a band from Bremen, who played noisecore on their first demos but became more grindcore on their '90s EPs.  Notable for the demented shouted/growled vocals of mainstay Andi Mahl. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tumor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.