Tunng are a London, England, neo-folk / folktronica band, formed in 2003.  The band consists of Mike Lindsay (vocals, guitar), Becky Jacobs (vocals, percussion, synths), Ashley Bates (banjo, guitar), Phil Winter (electronics, sampling, keyboards), Martin Smith (percussion, keyboards/piano) and Simon Glenister (drums).  Their latest album is "Songs You Make at Night" (Aug 2018, Full Time Hobby).

Former members include co-founder Sam Genders (vocals, guitar), who left the band before the release of "...And Then We Saw Land" (Mar 2010, Full Time Hobby).

Tunng started after Genders and Lindsay met, in the latter's Soho basement studio (below a clothes shop). Genders was a singer-songwriter and Lindsay had the studio (making electronica and living through advertising music production).  They found that Lindsay's distinctive way with twinkling sounds, and tight production, significantly enhanced the folky songs they were writing - A signature sound developed.

Tunng's first album was "Mother's Daughter And Other Songs" (Jan 2005, Static Caravan) - However, since Genders made at first the choice not to play live, Lindsay found Jacobs and Bates. to help with live shows.  Over time, Winter and Smith became part of the band and have all contributed more to recordings, first on "Comments Of The Inner Chorus" (May 2006, Full Time Hobby), then more so on "Good Arrows" (Aug 2007, Full Time Hobby).

The 2010 album, "...And Then We Saw Land", has been the most successful to date and was recorded in the semi-legendary Play Industries Studio, Shoreditch, with access to its vast collection of vintage synthesizers helping develop a more delicate and inter-woven production style. Glenister added live drums to the gigs, from 2009, for a heavier sound, a long way from the seated studio project Tunng once was.

On "Turbines":  "...often beloved for its bucolic oddness and modernist gleam, Tunng's polyphonic future folk blossoms with enchanting melodies, simmering grooves, and found sound that has propelled the band into a paradise of exceeded expectations" (Absolute Punk). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tunng">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.