There are three artists under the name "Turk"

[1]
Turk, who's real name is Önder Doğan was born in Amsterdam-Noord. While he was still in his childhood, the family moved to Madrid, Istanbul and at last to Eindhoven. Back in the Netherlands he started writing his own raps, and joined "Militant Union" with who he participated at the Grote Prijs van Nederland. Later on he met SpaceKees in a coffeeshop, and they started recording. SpaceKees even asked Turk to join him and Jiggy Djé on stage as backup-MC.

In 2008 his first EP was ready, entitled Turkse Pizza. This EP, produced by SirOJ, features raps from SpaceKees, Jiggy Djé, Heist Rockah, Willie Wartaal en Vieze Fur. Later that year he released the Beondekijkuit mixtape and "De Kassier: Een Monnie Album" in 2009 where he's currently working on with FS Green. Next to his solo carreer, he started Bang Bros with Hoogvliet rapper Hef.


[2]
Turk, born Tab Virgil, Jr. in 1981 in New Orleans, Louisiana, is an African-American rapper, member of the hip hop group Hot Boys

Turk was first discovered in 1996 when he was rapping for Cash Money Records (brothers Ronald “Slim” Williams and Bryan “Baby” Williams ) Later that same year, he made his debut with a cameo on Juvenile’s solo debut, “Solja Rags”. He was welcomed into the newly formed Hot Boys (who also included Juvenile, B.G., and Lil’ Wayne), issuing “Get It How You Live!” in 1997 and “Guerilla Warfare” (which would eventually go platinum) two years later.

He continued to make cameos on other rapper’s recordings, including Juvenile’s big hits “400 Degreez” and “Tha G-Code”, Lil’ Wayne’s “Tha Block Is Hot” and “Lights Out”, as well as B.G.’s “It’s All on You, Vol. 1” and “It’s All on You, Vol. 2”. June 2001 saw the release of Turk’s solo debut, “Young and Thuggin’” on Universal Records. His first solo album also coincided with the dissolution of the Hot Boys and the departure of B.G. and Juvenile from the Cash Money label over a royalties dispute with CEO Bryan Williams . While He cut another album, “Untamed Guerilla”, for Cash Money as a follow-up to “Young and Thuggin’” but it was never released as he became embroiled in a similar contractual conflict as Juvenile and B.G.

In 2003, Turk followed B.G. to Koch Records, where he recorded “Raw and Uncut”, technically his second solo album.

Turk is currently serving a sentence of 10 years for attempted murder on a federal agent during a drug raid.


[3]
Dr. Christopher “Chris” Duncan Turk (most commonly referred to as Turk) is a fictional character played by Donald Faison on the American sitcom Scrubs. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Turk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.