1)  Turning Point is an influential straight edge hardcore band from New Jersey, active from 1988 to 1991. Their early releases had the sound of youth crew, with lyrics relating to social issues or being straight edge. The later material strayed away from their previous youth crew style to take on a more emo, melodic and introspective sound. Lead singer Skip Candelori and guitarist Jay Laughlin previously formed Moorestown, New Jersey-based Pointless. Ken Flavell, drums, originally played drums with brother Chris Flavell in the early southern New Jersey hardcore band, Failsafe. Nick Greif, bass, previously played bass in the late 80's straight-edge hardcore band, Awareness. Candelori died in 2002 of an accidental drug overdose.


2) is an instrumental jazz group based in Phoenix, Arizona. The idea for the band was conceived by the guitar and bass duo of brothers Thano and Demitri Sahnas. When the two met drummer/percussionist John Herrera and keyboardist Steve Culp on separate gigs shortly after, Turning Point was formed.
Brian Bromberg produced and appears as a guest bassist on the 2002 release, A Thousand Stories.

3. Turning Point were a late 1970s fusion band from the UK. The band was formed by Jeff Clyne (bass) and Brian Miller (keyboards), who had previously played together in Isotope,[1] and Pepi Lemer (wordless vocals).[2] Also in the band were David Tidball (saxes) and Paul Robinson (drums). They recorded two albums: Creatures of the Night (1977) and Silent Promise (1978), both on the Gull label.

They toured the UK, including supporting National Health in 1977. Their final tour in 1980 included Allan Holdsworth and Neil Ardley.

P. Lemer was the then-wife (later divorced) of Pete Lemer and went on to become a vocal coach, including working with The Spice Girls. Robinson later worked with Nina Simone. Miller worked on the musical Cats for several years
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Turning+Point">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.