[url=[officialsite]http://www.twiinsmusic.com]TWiiNS is a Slovakian pop duo consisting of twin sisters Daniela Nízlová and Veronika Nízlová who were born on May 15 1986. They represented Slovakia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2011 with their song, "I'm Still Alive". The twins were background singers and dancers for Tereza Kerndlová, the Czech entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008. 

They started to sing earlier than they started to speak. They attended the same schools and had a shared dream of becoming an international pop duet. At the completion of secondary school, the girls decided to attend Comenius University of Management. This move would help them manage their prospective music careers and both graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in management.

Shortly after completing school in 2000, the pop sensations were scouted by a major Slovakian record label that went on to offer them a recording deal. The TWiiNS formed a joint venture and released four albums for which they were awarded three Golden and one Platinum record.

The girls went on to host their own TV show "Hitbox" for four years on TV Markiza. In the meantime they also made their acting debut playing leading roles as Tereza in the musical "Rebelove" showcased in Prague's Broadway Theatre and in Bratislava as well.

After taking some time off from recording, the TWiiNS returned to the studio in April 2008 where they teamed up with noted American producer Jimmy Douglass. Jimmy Douglass is well known for his work with Timbaland, Nelly Furtado, Justin Timberlake, and many more. As a result, Daniela and Veronika recorded their song "I Don't Know" and filmed its video in beautiful Miami the following month. Musically influenced by related pop acts such as Lady Gaga, Beyonce, Kate Perry, Miley Cyrus, and more, the group decided to team up with additional notable music industry players to continue with their goals in breaking as a worldwide artist.

At the beginning of 2010, recorded a new single - a potential summer hit, remake of a song by Sabrina's "Boys". During the summer, the single proved to gain success with rotation on the music channels VIVA, CITY TV, ONE MUSIC, radio in the US and more. TWiiNS signed a contract with a newly established US based label, "B RECORDS". Simultaneously, their first digital US single "BOYS BOYS BOYS" was released, featuring rapper Carlprit, who previously starred in a worldwide  million selling smash hit by Cascada's Evacuate the Dancefloor".

At the end of July, TWiiNS moved to Los Angeles which became their new home and they started working on the international version of their album whose release is planned for winter 2011.

In March 2011 another single will be released worldwide, "Welcome to Hollywood" written by successful songwriters. The TWiiNS are also shooting the music video for “Welcome to Hollywood” in Los Angeles at the end of February 2011.

In May 2011 TWiiNS represents SLOVAKIA at the Eurovision Song Contest in Germany with another new song entitled "I'm Still Alive". Additionally, the group will be doing live dates throughout the year in 2011. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/TWiiNS">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.