The band TWILIGHT IS MINE was founded in 1996 by two musicians - Hater and Stellarghost under the inspiration of the true black metal wave of early 90-s. The material for the first album "When the Twilight covers the world" was composed during one year. The main content of lyrics was hate to the whole mankind, mysticism and glorifying the powers of Nature.

        Our main philosophic concept is the development of a person towards perfection by magic and contact with the forces of Nature because it is given to us with birth. The ancients lived like this. But christian tradition for ages was annihilating occult knowledge of our forefathers, cultivating slavish submissiveness in man and fear before god, turning mighty in former times race to miserable degenerative creatures. And we had forgotten what is to accumulate personal power, to open new dimensions for ourselves, we had forgotten that flight the ancients knew, the song of woods and cosmos, stars and the moon. Not to be god's slave but raise to gods - that is the meaning of life!

       And christian tradition must be destroyed, wiped off from the earth's face! In our music we try to transmit the charming atmosphere of old times that is lost now and for which we experience nostalgia.

 

        The 3-years break in activity of the band has began in 1997 for some private reasons. During that time the compositions for the next albums were created. Just in 2000 we recommenced working together and by 2001 have recorded in home conditions the first album "When the Twilight covers the world" consisting of 96-97's material.

        In April 2002 in "Trilogy studio" we have recorded the second album "The Egregor of Evil" including 11 tracks written in 98-99 years. It's music is more oppressive and has changed towards severe simplicity.

        The last track in each album is a cover version of a classical musical composition. It is "Lullaby in storm" of Tchaikovsky in "When the Twilight covers the world" and "Egmont" of Beethoven in "The Egregor of Evil".

        

       The recording process for the 3-rd album has began in spring of 2003, the drums were recorded in "Trilogy studio" performed by Messiah A.M. who played in "The Egregor of Evil". But then the process is delayed for a long time cause of technical problems linked with dissatisfaction with some instruments sound. Just in winter the recording is finished. The new album "Wreaking Overrun" consists of songs written in 1999-2000 years. The music is more agressive and fast and a cover version of Musorgsky "Baba-Yaga" is included.

      

       In summer 2004 the debut album "When the Twilight covers the world" (recorded before in home conditions) is released by russian label Witchcraft Productions on CD-R limited to 100 copies. At the same time we have started to work on it's rerecording in studio with live drums because the demo-quality didn't suit us. The drums were performed by famous russian drummer Alcothron. In autumn the process is finished with a studio-quality sound as the result.

       In september 2004 Oskorei Music (Russia) have released "The Egregor of Evil".

Discography:

When the Twilight Covers the World Full-length, 2001
The Egregor of Evil Full-length, 2002
Wreaking Overrun Full-length, 2003
...vom Nachtnebel umarmte Wälder Split, 2006

Official Site: http://twilightismine.narod.ru/content.htm <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twilight+Is+Mine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.