Twilight symphony started up as a Heavy Metal band in -94, under the name "Sufferchild". The lineup was: Johan Eriksson and Peter Ogestad on guitars, Henrik Stenqvist bass, Magnus Westblom vocals, and Henrik Leghissa on drums. During two years we rehearsed and gave a few liveshows in our local environment. After this we decided that we wanted to change our style to a bit more complex and melodic kind of metal. Just before this we changed our name from "Sufferchild" to "Twilight Symphony" and in the same time we got rid of Magnus 'cause he didn't really fit in anymore. 

Now Henrik Stenqvist picked up the mic and opened his throat for the outside world. After rehearsing awhile and also doing a few gigs we found that Peter didn't really "fit us" anymore either… so we got rid of him too. Now we stood without a second guitarist so Henrik Stenqvist stopped pounding the bass and filled the empty spot that Peter left. Now we had a problem, no bassist. 

This was quickly fixed thou… when we rehearsed one cold night we got to think of our childhood companion (and drinking companion of course) Benny Persson who had at least touched a bass on a few occasions. A couple gallons of moonshine later we made him bend over and join us. This was in the fall of 95. Then the "regular" work began with rehearsals, gigs, argues etc etc. In this era we also began to write the lyrics and music for our most recognized piece of work (at least in the local scene); At Dawn. One funny note is that we played as a "opener" for a swedish pop-band Pine forest crunch with their female-rapevictim-vocalist in the summer of 96. 

After this we gave a few shows at local places, rehearsed and lived a really mellow life until December 97 when we went into "Turpethead Studio" and recorded the now well known demo/mcd "At Dawn". We made 300 cd-plant pressed cd's and gave away/sold almost every copy in an instant. The year of -98 became a pretty unproductive year for us. We made only one new song during the spring and in the summer Johan gave us the sad new that he was going to move to Stockholm, 1000 km away from us. It became very hard to replace Johan, who was one of the best guitarplayers in Boden (just listen to the solos on the demo!). We have a replacement going on… we hope and believe that this will work out fine. 

In may of 99 we made a launch on the Internet and this turned out very nice. We had over 12000 downloads and this lead to… 

In november we got broadcasted om swedish national tv on prime time. This had a lot to do with our massive campaign and response from our Internet audience. When this is written we've had over 18000 downloads.

Taken from the remains of the band's site <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/twilight+symphony">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.