There at least two different representatives of the name Twine.

1) Baltimore, Maryland's Greg Malcolm and San Diego, California's Chad Mossholder comprise a unique musical entity. Twine is the culmination of their extended history, which includes their acclaimed 2002 LP Recorder for France's Bip-Hop and their distinguished catalogue for Chicago's Hefty Records and Sweden's Komplott. Their sound contains a mysterious and unresolved quality, the result of the musical relationship which the group's two main practitioners share. Making music together from across the country, their collaborations are exercises in postmodern abstraction. Songs become experimentations in the virtual realm, with files bounced back and forth across time zone and singular ideas becoming collaborative. 

The Twinesound is a structure meets noise vs. melody sound, always morphing into something new. Glitchy beats collapse into warm swarms of static, long atmospheric drones become abstract soundscapes where cold dark ambience and stark angular structures meet. This is a story of the fuzzy lines that connect and distance humanity, and the spiritual in-between that emerges in the nighttime hours.

2) A nom de guerre of Claude Young.

3) A Dubstep/Trap Producer and DJ named Clark Robinson from Pensacola, FL

2010 was a huge year for Dubstep with the rise of major bone crushing sounds infused with panty dropper melodies with artists such as Skrillex and 12th Planet, and with that came the power of influence. After hearing Skrillex for the first time, Clark developed a deep interest in bass music and how such sounds were produced. Fast forward 4 years, Clark has now launched his new project called “Twine” where he strives to deliver a new sound and a fresh style to the electronic dance music scene. With support from the likes of Datsik, 12th Planet, Protohype and Getter, Clark is an up and coming artist who you should be on the strong lookout for with big things in planned for future. He’s also great with kids, and speaks with his hand in front of his mouth because he’s a very reputable person. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.