Twins Crew was founded 2007 by the Twins Dennis and David Janglöv after they graduated with honors from the World famous GIT ( Gutiar institute of Technoligy) in Hollywood, USA.

The band started with 5 people in the line up. Andreas Larsson on vocals, Fredrik Hammar on bass, Uno Eriksson on drums and Dennis and David Janglöv on guitar. Twins Crew consist of 6 members today, Nicko Dimarino joined the band on keyboard in 2013.

The goal was to start a band which would have all the classic Heavy Metal elements from band such as Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, Helloween, Stratovarious and show the true face of the Heavy/ Power Metal genre.

Two EPs was recorded during 2008 ( Twins Crew) to 2009 ( Twin demon) but it wasn't until we released our first full album we found our true sound.

The Recording of our first album "Judgement Night" took place in July 2010 in Deep Blue studio Nyköping, Sweden. The album was recorded during a of four weeks period and engineered by Nicko DiMarino who also recorded with band such as Steelwing and Malison Rogue.

The album’s artwork is designed by Carl-André Beckston at Beckston Media Arts (EDGUY, House of Lords, TNT) and mastered by Mike Lind at Masterplant (Body Count, DIO, The Poodles).
Judgement Night received great reviews worldwide and was picked “album of the month” by several webzines and magazines.

Twins Crew made our first tour outside Sweden in 2009 in Germany and Austria. The tour was successful and they made a lot of new fans in the area. The Band has also supported the Japanese band Loudness, MILLION, Paul Dianno and was invited to play the largest indoor Heavy Metal festival in Sweden, House of Metal in 2011.

In November 2012 we went into the studio to start recording our 2nd album "The Northern crusade".
This album was also recorded in Deep Blue studios and the same people was involved in the making as the previous album.

Nicko Dimarino who previously have played with bands such as Sabaton etc joined the band shortly after the recording session was done. Nicko has been involved with the band from the start since he made all the keyboard parts on all of our albums so it was a natural step for the band.

Twins Crew signed a record deal with the Italian record label "Scarlet Records" in the beginning of 2013 for the release of their second album. The release of the album is set to July 31..

Twins Crew believes that the New Testament in the book of heavy metal is yet to be written and we would be loud and proud to be a part of it.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twins+Crew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.