Twister of Truth was a Dutch Death Metal band,  founded in December 2001 in Schiedam, the Netherlands, under the moniker "Dissenter". Initially with Pepijn de Bruijn on vocals, but after a year the band decided they wanted more brutal vocals in their music. Late in 2002 Pepijn was replaced by Bas Kemp. As the name "Dissenter" was already in use by another Death Metal outfit, the name was changed to "Twister of Truth" around the time ToT's first EP "World of Emptiness" was released.

In october 2003, drummer Arno Vermeer left the band. After multiple attempts with different people Patrick van der Veeke joined ToT and fills the drum seat to this day.

In october 2008 ToT parted ways with guitarist and founding member Vincent van Roon. A year later, he was replaced with Geoffrey Maas.

With ToT's music becoming increasingly more technical and brutal bass-player Rob Scholte began having trouble to keep up. In 2009 he left the band and was replaced by none other then ex-vocalist Pepijn de Bruijn, the band thus coming full-circle.

From their humble beginnings as a mainstream metal outfit, ToT have turned more and more brutal and technical, taking influences from artists as diverse as Iron Maiden, Slayer, Suffocation, Necrophagist, Scarve and Dying Fetus, but also System of a Down and Slipknot. In all, this makes for a rather eclectical mix of death metal, thrash metal and speed metal combined with nu- and alternative influences.

With this stable line-up, Twister of Truth released their first full-length album "The Banality of Wickedness" in july 2011. This album served as closure of sorts, as it includes mostly older songs that weren't recorded properly before. 

In 2012 Twister of Truth decided to quit, after a reunion concert in 2011 which included all former members of the band. Maurice Jonas went on to perform in Concedo Nulli, with the remainder of Twister of Truth attempting to continue under the monicker Banality.

Last line-up
Bas Kemp - Vocals
Maurice Jonas - Guitar
Geoffrey Maas - Guitar
Pepijn de Bruijn - Bass
Patrick van der Veeken - Drums 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twister+of+Truth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.