There are a lot of bands or artists named Twist: 

1) Twist was a female trio from Mexico formed at the end of the 90's. Its members were Tabatha (former member of Jeans), Pamela, and Natalia LaFourcade.

2) Twist is Laura Hermiston of Toronto group The BB Guns with producer Brian Borcherdt of Holy Fuck. http://twistmusic.bandcamp.com/

3) Twist from Alphen aan den Rijn in the Netherlands, a young band with five members:

Daan Scherpenzeel (vocals, 16)
Remco Snijders (guitar, 16)
Boris Egberts (bass, 18)
Tijn Sinke (keys, 16)
Casper Zaalberg (drums, 17)

They made one demo in Leiden, Netherlands which contains three songs: Sex for free, Based on and Since the age of twelve.

 4) A female-led grunge four-piece from Birmingham, UK.

5) Hardcore band from Pernik, Bulgaria! (MySpace)

Twist were formed in the early 2003. The main idea to form this band came up on a party when everybody was drunk and at the time it was like a joke. After few months Twist took the idea much more seriously, bought some cheap instruments, rent-an-old and miserable house and started to play some cover songs. At that time the band was:Vesko-guitar, Miro-Bass,Kalin-Guitar,Radoslaff-Drums and unfortunately no vocals. After 1 year the things went wrong, the drummer quit and the house was sold out to another people. After 10 moths and 3 days pause Twist started to look forward for a new drummer, but unfortunately this try was unlucky. Suddenly at 2006 Twist met Emil(Uncle "M"-drums) and Sashe-vocals at the "No Man's Land"(Pernik) and then they made test-rehearsal and realize that from this very moment they have future together. For 1 year more Twist were playing in the rehearsing studios all around Sofia,then in the summer of 2007, Twist made their own rehearsing studio, and step by step bought new instruments and started to compose their own songs(Metal/New School HardCore/Alternative/Death) Just few months later Twist already have many shows in the Bulgarian towns and cities. The Band works "shit Jobs,just to play Rock"!!! Twist now continuous to compose, work hard and fight the "Stone Cold Bulgarian Reality". 

Band members:
Sashe - Vocals
Kalin - Guitar
Miro - bass
Vesko - guitar
Emo - drums

6) Twist, real name David "Dave" Lee is a UK based dubstep producer. He is also one half of two duo project with his cousin James "Jimmy" Tippet, these being Torqux (fka Torqux & Twist and Tru Fonix. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.