Twisted Sister was an American heavy metal band from Long Island, New York, United States popularized in comedic music videos on the television channel MTV in the 80s. Although formed as a David Bowie-inspired rock band by guitarist Jay Jay French in 1973, the band's style shifted to a more strident, aggressive metal-influenced sound when frontman Dee Snider joined the band and took over songwriting, leading to the creation of fan-favorite songs such as "I Wanna Rock", "We're Not Gonna Take It", and "Under the Blade". 

They fused the shock tactics of Alice Cooper and W.A.S.P., the rebellious mood of the 'New Wave of British Heavy Metal', the biker-culture style of early Judas Priest, and the extravagant makeup of KISS. Dee Snider's outfits resulted in his nickname as "the best dressed woman in rock n roll" (which he embraces). Often misconceived as a simple glam group, as the makeup used on the band (Snider especially) reminds fans of horror films, Twisted Sister's music is a lot more hard hitting, with lyrics focusing on rebellion, anger, violence, and pride in rock n roll versus more traditional love songs or purely happy lyricism.

For example, the aforementioned  "Under the Blade" focused on the fear of surgery and being hospitalized. However, the band's fifth album, 'Love Is For Suckers' (originally intended by Dee Snider to be a solo record), was classic metal that drew heavy influence from 80s pop metal styles. To this day, members of the band do not feel 'Love Is For Suckers' to be a true Twisted Sister album.

The group's biggest hits include "I Wanna Rock" and "We're Not Gonna Take It", both of them hard rock / heavy metal anthems. Each came from the band's third album, the commercial and critical success called 'Stay Hungry'. Many of the band's songs theme around parent vs. child conflicts and criticisms against the U.S. educational system (the title alone of "I'll Never Grow Up Now" sort of says it all). The group had a shock rock-like image and have been labeled as 'glam metal' as stated before, viewed by fans as a case of mistaken identity. They are musically closer to classic heavy bands such as Judas Priest and Motörhead than the more slickly commercial pop metal bands of the era, such as Quiet Riot, Poison, and Ratt.

Their hit song "S.M.F.", standing for 'Sick Mother Fucker', should also not be forgotten. Snider's taken on the band's fans as his fellow "awesomely sick motherfuckers" during Twisted Sister's many rowdy and powerful live shows over the years.

Twisted Sister disbanded in 1988, but reunited in 1997, 2001, and 2003. Drummer A.J. Pero died in his sleep on March 20, 2015. For the band's farewell tour, Pero was replaced by former Dream Theater drummer Mike Portnoy. Twisted Sister played its final concert on November 12, 2016.

Discography
I'll never grow up, now! (1979) single
Ruff Cuts (EP) (1982)
Under the blade (1982)
You can't stop rock n roll (1983)
Stay Hungry (1984)
Come out and play (1985)
Love is for suckers (1987)
Big Hits and Nasty Cuts (1992)
Live at the Hammersmith (1994)
Club Daze Volume I: The Studio Sessions (1999)
Club Daze Volume II: Live in the bars (2002)
Still Hungry (2004)
Twisted Christmas (2006)
Live at the Marquee (2011)

Members
Dee Snider (Vocals)
Jay Jay French (rhythm guitar)
Eddie O'jeda (lead guitar)
Mark Mendoza(Bass)
A.J. Pero (Drums) (R.I.P. 20.03.2015)

Years Active
1972-1987;
1997 - 2016 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twisted+Sister">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.