There are 7 bands/people with the name Twister:

1. A Brazilian boyband

2. Twister. A Hungarian melodic heavy metal band from Budapest.

Line up:
Tamás Mókus "Móki" - vocals
Gergő Szávai "Gery" - guitars
Tamás Pető "Hellfire Tomi" - guitars, vocals
Balázs Molnár - bass
Levente Teleki - drums

The first Twister demo was released in 2007. Later, they came out with an EP in 2010, titled "Megkísértés". Their first full length album, "Az Ördöny lánya" was released in 2011, follwed by a suscessful album release concert and tour.
Two music videos were followed the album's release. The first one was made for the song "Így imádlak", and got nice feedbacks from the fans. After the release of their first, all new music video, the band travelled to Miskolc to shoot the motion picture for their song, titled "Az Ördög lánya".

The first EP with English lyrics, called "Insight". The album includes four of the most beloved tracks from "Az Ördög Lánya" LP, called "Twister", "Így Imádlak - All I See", "Egyedül - Alone", "Megkísértés - Temptation". This EP was also a Christmas gift for the fans, because it was released December 25, 2012.
Insight is available for free download. For more details, visit the band's official website, or download the songs directly from the EP's last.fm page.

In the July of 2013, Twister strikes again with 10 melodious masterpieces. After two years of waiting, the band released a new album, "Duplacsavar", which was recorded in the studio of Gábor Kovács, who is the guitarist of the well-known Hungarian power metal band, Wisdom. With a more powerful sound, their new album is a brilliant addition to the Twisterology.

www.twistermusic.hu

2. A Ukrainian  atmospheric  hipa-hapa formed in Zhovkva, by MC REC and DJ44. 

3. Dutch MC/Producer from Tilburg. He produces for and raps in RealistiK, a group of five MC's.

5. A rock band from Chemnitz, Germany.

6. Progressive trance duo

7. A British Indie Band <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twister">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.