Thee are at least four artists known as Twitch:
1) Grindviolence band from Los Angeles, California
2) a brony electronic dance music producer
3) a Canadian 70's rock band.
4) an American 90's metal/rock band

Twitch (Canada)

In the late 60's and first year or two of 1970's, Twitch arose from the ashes of the last version of "The Cry For Justice", which included Ian Steeksma and Steve Perry. Wanting to try something different, also to perhaps cash in on the growing trend for bands to put on a show, and using theatrical makeup, Ian Steeksma, Steven Perry, Rick Lang and Mike Brown eventually made up the first Twitch to begin touring the local clubs and schools in Vancouver. In 1973, Rick left and the band was joined by Ian's younger brother Colin on bass. 

Using Colin's and Steve's additional writing skills, the band evolved into a very theatrical performance utilizing many dark and near-Satanic themes; the show climaxed with the drummer Mike being shot on a huge cross. 

Steve and Mike left the band, which left Ian and Colin to re-form. 

The next incarnation of Twitch was to be based on a more good-time atmosphere as the prior dark side antics were eventually even getting to theband members, but also utilizing an original storyline of songs, a lot of the New Wave and Punk music coming out of New York, and still using theatrical makeup and choreography. 

Twitch was a local rock group known for it's bizarre stage show, theatrics and theme inspired fast rock. In one part of the show.the drummer, Mike Brown, was shot from a platform with a fake revolver and dove (fell) over the drum kit on a riser and landed writhing around in "pain" on the stage next to the rest of the band spewing fake blood. When the "bullets" hit him, a pressurized blood bag hidden in his mouth exploded for effect. 

Although that and the rest of the show was very successful even after seeing it several times including Grey Cup weekend, the owners at the time were never able to erase or paint the "blood stains" off the wall until it was demolished.. 
-Ian Steeksma 

Dennis Blackman: guitar 
Jerry Brown: drums 
Mike Brown: drums 
Gary Devost: guitar 
Bob Jackson: drums 
Rick Laing: bass, backing vocals 
Bernie Mallet: drums 
Steve Perry: guitar 
Norm Sawyer: bass 
Colin Steeksma: bass 
Ian Steeksma: guitar, vocals 
Simon Williams: bass

Twich (USA)

The Kalamazoo band twitch came into existence around the end of 1990, out of the remains of the rarely-heard "Crowded Morgue". At the time, band members included Kevin Oberlin (vocals and guitar), Steve Martin (bass), Kevin Farkas (drums), and Rick Cutsinger (guitar). Within this line-up, they released the metal-with-some-clean-guitar cassette "Feel the Palm" and gained relative popularity around town, playing the club and parties. Within the next year or so, Chris Bryers joined the band as vocalist, leaving "Selling Heaven" and Rick Cutsinger left. Chris joked that he had won the "Honorary Sammy Hagar Ruin your Favorite Metal Band" award, but in fact, Twitch took quite a turn towards improvement. In 1993 they released the very popular EP CD "Homewrecker", and became fixtures in Kalamazoo and played the big festivally shows. Another demo was recorded at the Western Studios which was never released. They released the 7' of Jedi/Maryjane to a dwindling number of turntables. They were signed to Grass Records and recorded their first full length, "Beaten Senseless and Giddy With Love" (1993). A video for "Locomotive God" was produced. They were also included on a Frank Sinatra tribute record. At the height of the Kalamazoo local scene, twitch was picked up by major record label RCA Records and recorded two albums worth of unreleased material (a demo and an album) with producer Dave Ogilvy. In 1995, they were dropped by the label and broke up shortly afterward. Members went on to start Owlsa, Sleet and Dead River Drag. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twitch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.