Two Gallants is an American guitar-drum duo from San Francisco, California. Comprising Adam Stephens (guitar, harmonica, keyboards, piano, vocals) and Tyson Vogel (drums, guitar, vocals), the band formed in 2002. Nothing has been heard of the band since a second hiatus began in 2016 (the first being 2008-12). 

Friends since they were five, the band grew up playing music together, from early teen-age house parties in their hometown of San Francisco, to multiple world tours. Throughout their extensive travels over the past 8 years – including recent tours through China and South Korea – Two Gallants have continued to evolve, both musically and personally. 

The bands' very first single, "Nothing to You" (from their 2004 debut The Throes), started off a string of cult classics that helped define their signature sound. The success of the sophomore album, What the Toll Tells (2006), delivered a few more singles, including “Steady Rollin’” and “Las Cruces Jail”.  The wistful “Seems Like Home to Me” from The Scenery of Farewell EP (2007) and “Despite What You’ve Been Told” from 2007’s self-titled album, provide the framework of the bands development into The Bloom and the Blight. 

After six years of constant recording and touring, Two Gallants took a hiatus starting in the summer of 2008. 

About their 2012 album, The Bloom and the Blight, Adam Stephens explained: “We’ve both gone through some hard stuff personally, so this album has that element of the cathartic, of a release of tension. We had taken time off, and we did different things, played in different bands. And in doing those things, being apart and redefining ourselves in that way, we were able to come together with a fresh approach.” The album's first single was "Broken Eyes". 
The Bloom and the Blight Album Trailer: http://youtu.be/qOY07eRnAgU

We Are Undone, Two Gallants' fifth studio album and second for ATO Records, was released in February 2015. 

A second hiatus began in 2016. 

www.twogallants.com
www.facebook.com/twogallants
www.twitter.com/twogallants <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Two+Gallants">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.