Founded by Nick Phoenix and Thomas J. Bergersen in March 2006 and based in Santa Monica, California, Two Steps from Hell is a company specializing in composing music for motion picture advertising.
As is usual with trailer music, most of their releases are not sold commercially and are available for licensing only.

﻿Public albums

Invincible (2010) — Compilation of some of the most popular Two Steps from Hell tracks. Also available on ExtremeMusic.
Illusions (2011) — Thomas Bergersen solo album, formerly titled Nemesis II. Also available on ExtremeMusic.
Archangel (2011) — Compilation of more of the most popular Two Steps from Hell tracks.
Demon's Dance (2012) — Compilation of tracks from various albums spanning multiple genres, available only on the Two Steps from Hell app for iOS and Android.
Halloween (2012) — Compilation of well-known horror tracks from several demonstration albums, with several other-genre tracks as well.
SkyWorld (2012) — First public album to use mostly all-new tracks. Expanded version available on ExtremeMusic.
Classics Volume One (2013) — Compilation of previously unreleased tracks in the same vein as Invincible and Archangel. First public album available in lossless audio. Expanded version available on ExtremeMusic.
Speed of Sound (2013) — Nick Phoenix album. All-new tracks. Also available on ExtremeMusic.
Miracles (2014) — An epic drama/emotional album with the best of Illumina, Dreams & Imaginations, Two Steps From Heaven, and a few new tracks composed by Thomas Bergersen.
Colin Frake on Fire Mountain (2014) — Soundtrack for an e-book penned by Nick Phoenix. Composed by Thomas Bergersen with additional music by Nick Phoenix.
Sun (2014) — All new tracks by Thomas Bergersen. Follow-up to Illusions. Also available on ExtremeMusic.
Battlecry (2015) — Public Album; "ultra epic" follow-up to SkyWorld and the first public album to be released on two discs. Also available on ExtremeMusic.
Legacy (2015) — Japan-exclusive album featuring compiled tracks from previous public albums.
Classics Volume Two (2015) — Compilation of new and previously unreleased tracks.
Two Steps from Hell: Ringtones (2016) — A collection of ringtones released on Google Play.
Vanquish (2016) —Released 12/02/16. Contains singer Felicia Ferrare who appeared in Battlecry.


Demonstration albums

Volume One (2006) — First album, featuring various genres
Shadows and Nightmares (2006) — Horror genre album, along with a sound effects library
Dynasty (2007) — Epic genre album
All Drums Go to Hell (2007) — Heavily percussion-oriented album
Pathogen (2007) — Epic futuristic metal album mostly composed by Nick Phoenix
Nemesis (2007) — Epic genre album mostly composed by Thomas Bergersen
Dreams & Imaginations (2008) — New Age album
Legend (2008) — Epic genre album, with some tracks composed by Troels Folmann
Ashes (2008) — Horror genre album
The Devil Wears Nada (2009) — Mostly light and humorous album
Power of Darkness (2010) — Epic genre album
All Drones Go to Hell (2010) — New Age album; also known as Mystical Beginnings.
Illumina (2010) — New Age album
Balls to the Wall (2011) — Percussion album, with some tracks composed by Alex Pfeffer.
Nero (2011) — Epic genre album, with some tracks composed by Alex Pfeffer.
Two Steps from Heaven (2012) — Pet project of Thomas Bergersen, featuring inspiring, emotional, and adventurous music.
Burn (2012) — A small collection of eight dubstep remixed tracks.
Cyanide (2013) — Percussion album
Crime Lab (2013) — electronic industrial album
Open Conspiracy (2014) — Electronic Hybrid album composed by Hitesh Ceon, Nick Pittsinger, Thomas Bergersen and Nick Phoenix.
Amaria (2014) — new age/drama album composed by Thomas Bergersen.
Too Big to Fail (2014) — Sound effects library / Trailer toolkit.
Empire (2015) — Industry Album. Mostly consists of tracks from Classics Volume Two composed by Nick Phoenix.
Stronger Faster Braver (2015) — Subtitled as "Extreme Sports Music". Motivational, energetic and driving compositions.


Other albums
There are a number of albums made by other composers from the company, which are not considered part of the primary library and are consequently not represented on official Two Steps from Hell resources. They include:

Sinners (2011) — Electronic metal album composed by Aleksandar Dimitrijevic
Faction (2012) — Dark drones and soundscapes. Putative author is "Brad Rue", as shown on ExtremeMusic.com.
Solaris (2013) — Epic futuristic metal album, actually composed by Alex Pfeffer, who had previously contributed several tracks to the "Nero" album.
Orion (2013) — Short epic hybrid album composed by Michał Cielecki.
Quarantine (2014) — Sci-fi electronica album composed by Brad Rue.

Additionally, composer Troels Folmann contributed a number of tracks to the industry albums Dynasty, Dreams & Imaginations, and Legend, though he was credited only for the latter.

Commercial singles
Commercially available songs that are not on any album or were released as preview tracks. All of the following pieces are written by Bergersen, except where noted:

A Place in Heaven (2011) — Pre-release single from the Illusions album. Vocals performed by Jenifer Thigpen.
Ocean Princess (2011) — Pre-release single from the Illusions album. Vocals performed by Merethe Soltvedt.
Starvation (2011) — Pre-release single from the Illusions album.
Promise (2011) — Pre-release single from the Illusions album. Features cello performed by Tino Guo and vocals performed by Merethe Soltvedt.
Heart (2011) — Originally a single made to raise money to help the Tōhoku earthquake victims. Later included on the Two Steps from Heaven and Miracles albums.
The Hero in Your Heart (2013) — A single made to raise money to help the victims of the Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines. Lyrics written and performed by Merethe Soltvedt.
That's A Wrap (2014) — A dark, adventurous orchestral ten-minute song created entirely with Thomas's proprietary sample library.
Autumn Love (2014) — An emotional, piano-driven track in a similar style to Dreams and Imaginations.
Into Darkness (2014) — A nine-minute mix of neo-orchestral and EDM club style. Lyrics performed by Thomas Bergersen
Stay (2014) — A pop-themed pre-release single from the Miracles album. Lyrics written and performed by Merethe Soltvedt.
Miracles (2014) — A second pre-release single from the Miracles album.
Children of the Sun (2015.05.04) — Original vocal version of "None Shall Live" from the Battlecry album. Lyrics performed by Merethe Soltvedt.
Christmas Medley (2015) — An orchestral medley comprising various Christmas songs. The track is named Two Steps From Xmas on ExtremeMusic.com
Threnody for Europe (2016.07.23) — A nearly ten-minute track intended as "a musical contemplation on the current unrest in Europe."


Standalone tracks
Songs that are not on any album or were initially released as preview tracks via Facebook. All of the following pieces are written by Bergersen, except when noted:

Soaring Over Hollywood (2009) — A demo track created using the East West Hollywood Strings sample library.
Just Another Happy Ending (2009) — A demo track created using the East West Hollywood Strings sample library.
In Your Arms (2010) — A remix of "Memories" from the Dreams & Imaginations album, featuring Merethe Soltvedt.
Tower of Mischief (2011) — Intended as a preview track for the Two Steps from Heaven album, but ultimately released on Nero.
My Freedom (2011) — A track originally considered for release on Illusions. Later included on the Nero album. Lyrics performed by Merethe Soltvedt. Has since been released to the public on the album Miracles.
Benedictus (2011) — Originally intended for release on Sun. Later included on the Two Steps from Heaven album.
Where Are You (2011) — Pop-trance track with acoustic elements. Lyrics performed by Thomas Bergersen
My Soul, Not Yours (2012) — Experimental dubstep track. Later included on the Burn album as "Not Your Soul".
Hymn to Life (2012) — A track released on the occasion of Thomas's birthday. Later performed in a Czech concert as "Hymnus Vitae Dedicatus".
To Die on Halloween (2012) — A song from the public album, Halloween, with lyrics written and performed by Nick Phoenix. An official music video was released via YouTube.
Colin and Petunia (2014) — Preview track for the Colin Frake on Fire Mountain album. Retitled "Colin Frake" for its album release.
Freedom Ship (2015) — Preview track for the Battlecry album. Composed by Nick Phoenix.
Neverdark (2015) — Preview track for the Classics Volume Two album. Composed by Nick Phoenix.


Since the release of their first album in 2006, their music has been featured in trailers for movies like Babel, Flyboys, Superman Returns, Blood Diamond, The Da Vinci Code, X-Men: The Last Stand, The Hitcher, Hannibal Rising, The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, WALL•E, Anna Karenina and many others.

Official website : http://www.twostepsfromhell.com

Official Facebook page : http://www.facebook.com/twostepsfromhell

Official blog : http://nemesis2.wordpress.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Two+Steps+from+Hell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.