TWOTHIRTEEN’S inception occurred in May of 2005 in the wake of Chad and Zack’s previous projects Autumn Aria and Theory X.  After sharing the stage together several times their mutual love of punk rock infused metal formed the basis of the TWOTHIRTEEN sound. Taking the helm as principal vocalist Allen Nasty entered the equation in August of 2006 to help TWOTHIRTEEN fully realize their musical ambitions. Allen’s aggressive stage performances and gravelly vocal delivery, paired with Chad’s high octane punk rock guitar and Zack’s blistering drum beats garnered TWOTHIRTEEN a considerable following given their relative isolation. Constantly plagued with the inability to maintain a permanent bassist they enlisted the services of long time friend and local musician Derek Dodd thus filling out TWOTHIRTEEN’S lineup. Their fan base grew across the southeast as a result of extensive touring and promotion. 
     With a considerable number of shows under their belt they decided it was time to record and release their first full length album, “The Meek Shall Perish” in January of 2007. Recorded at End Of The World Studios in Atlanta, GA, the album was met with gleaming fan response due to its unique blend of catchy hooks, punk rock energy and metal brutality. After touring and promotion of “The Meek Shall Perish”, TWOTHIRTEEN was not content to rest on their laurels. It was time once again to enter the studio, this time for an E.P., “Everybody Needs A Role Model”,  recorded with drummer Zack Dees, further progressing their sound and expanding their rapidly growing fan base. A year later they found themselves in the studio again this time with Atlanta’s Matt Washburn (MASTODON, NORMA JEAN, etc.) at LedBelly Studios to record their latest album to date, “GOREGASM”, a more mature,  deliberate album solidifying TWOTHIRTEEN’S sound and further pushing the bands already extreme music to the next level. 
     With the release of “GOREGASM”, worldwide distribution made available TWOTHIRTEEN’S unique music to a widespread audience, further expanding their still growing fan base. They plan to record and release a new album in the near future, as well as a collaborative split E.P. with several renowned bands from across the globe. There is also talk of a cover album paying tribute to their influences and favorite bands and of course, more touring and relentless promotion.  Look out for TWOTHIRTEEN coming to a city near you. TWOTHIRTEEN WILL NEVER DIE!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Twothirteen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.