A lot of people ask, what is TYMELESS?

TYMELESS is a Movement  that’s growing stronger everyday, Encouraging anyone with DREAMS to do everything in their power to SUCCEED. Influences from only the GREATS, Michael Jackson, Michael Jordan, MLK Jr, etc., color, race, nor occupation but the only goal is to go to sleep at the end of the day knowing that you did all that you could get your dream. We understand that, we think of our GENRE as New School.  Our goal is to illuminate our generation on LIFE and try to help people through they’re own struggles with our music because no matter what, it could always be worse. We believe in helping as much people as we can, in and out of the studio, we want to change the image of what people think of our generation, our culture, it’s TYME for a REVOLUTION in this music industry. We want change and that’s our WHY, Yours may be something different but don’t let you opportunities slip away. We all only got one chance to do it right, no matter how down you are the only way you can go is up. So join us, TYMELESS is a Family, Lifestyle, Musicians, and much more. Help us, and we’ll help you.​
            CEO/Artist Ronald Beatty established TymeLess Musik on January 6th 2012, after graduating high school he attended The Recording Workshop in Chillicothe, OH.  Studying Audio Engineering and finishing the program, he earned his Audio Engineering License. Instead of going to college, at 18 he was doing shows in Atlanta, lucking out performing at TI’s Club Crucial, Opening for Young Jeezy in Morgantown, WV promoting the labels first mixtape entitled “D.R.E.A.M.S” which got awarded in the “Hot This Week” section, also earning interviews with Charleston’s Biggest Hip Hop Station 98.7 The Beat.
​
(ALL FOOTAGE STATED ABOVE CAN BE ACCESSED VIA YOUTUBE)
​
            Now Beatty is Attending West Virginia State College, Studying Communications, also working on upcoming mixtape entitled “The American Dream” which will be his first Solo Album. Beatty has met a lot of people in the industry, has features with well known celebs, and proven to be about the business first. The music has been in practice for over ten years, so the only question is why aren’t we famous? Everything happens for a reason maybe it may not be our tyme, but when it is we will always remember our true fans.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tymeless">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.