Typhoon is a name used by at least five artists.  
1. A rapper from the Netherlands
2. An indie rock band from the United States
3. A psychedelic trance group from France
4. A gothic/trance metal band from Poland
5. An alternate name for 타이푼

1. Glenn de Randamie (6 August 1984), better known as Typhoon, is a Dutch rapper from Zwolle. He is signed to Dutch hip-hop record label Top Notch. The rappers Blaxtar (brother) and O-Dog (brother) and the R&B singer Dinopha (younger sister) are Typhoon's relatives.

Typhoon's rap career started in 1999 at age 15 in the hip-hop crew Rudeteenz, together with Rico of Opgezwolle and his brother Blaxtar. Three years later he made his solo debut on the collection album "Vet verse flows". He contributed to the album with the tracks "Het doek valt" and "Alea Iacta Est".

Typhoon won the Grote Prijs van Nederland (Grand Prize of the Netherlands) in 2004 in the R&B/hip-hop category.  Soon after that he was signed by Top Notch.

In 2007 Typhoon released his debut album, titled "Tussen licht en lucht" (Between Light and Air). Between 2008 and 2010 he collaborated with Sticks, Rico, James and dj ART as  Fakkelbrigade and as such released the album "Colucci Era". In the mean time, he also collaborated with The New Cool Collective to make the 2009 album "Chocolade".

After that period of initial success, Typhoon struggled with a burn-out and had been searching for his personal and musical identity. This ultimately resulted in the release of his second solo album in 2014, titled "Lobi da basi" (Surinamese for "Love is King"). This album was instantly widely critically acclaimed and brought him to the attention of a broader musical audience. It ultimately reached platinum status.

After the success of Lobi da basi once again Typhoon struggled with a burn-out. In 2020 he returned to prominence with his third solo album "Lichthuis".

2. Portland indie orchestra Typhoon turned many a critical head in 2010 after releasing the critically acclaimed Hunger and Thirst on Tender Loving Empire. The've been named as one of Portland's best new bands by Willamette week, appeared in Amazon.com's top 100 albums of 2010, toured in support of Yann Tiersen and The Decemberists, and opened for the likes of Belle & Sebastian, Explosions in the Sky and The Dandy Warhols. The summer of 2011 took them to Lollapalooza, Sasquatch, Newport Folk Fest and to CBS studios in New York to perform on The Late Show with David Letterman.

A New Kind of House is Typhoon's sequel to their epic 2010 release Hunger and Thirst. With these five multi-movement song cycles, A New Kind of House becomes far more than an EP. This fully realized recording finds the 12-piece ensemble at the height of their powers. Rest assured, you will hear much more from Typhoon in the coming years.

3.  the French psychedelic trance act called Typhoon was active from around 1995 until 2000. The group consisted of members from Total Eclipse (Stephane Holweck, Serge Souque, Loic Van Poucke) with the addition of Daniel Toby (aka. DJ Dan Dan). The constellation only released around 6 tracks, but were featured on a lot of compilations.

4. A gothic/progressive metal band from Gdynia, Poland.

5. An alternate name for the Korean pop group 타이푼 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Typhoon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.