There are three bands using the name Tyrants: 1)An Austrian Black Metal Band 2)An art-punk band from Portland, Oregon and 3)A hardcore band from london, England

1)Tyrants are a black metal band from the deepest Alps of Austria.

Tyrants was born in the cold December off 2003 by F.P. and Gruol. Since that day it has lived in the minds of its creators and grew to be unleashed soon.

In September 2004 the horde was joined by Ördögvér on guitars and Evil on drums to march into live battles. Some bassists have been rehearsed too but they had to be removed because of their not shown discipline and/or motivation.

Since February 2005 Rammpage is the man on the 4 strings.

In April 2005 F.P. decides to leave the band because of health and personal reasons. One month later Graveghoul picks up the chainsaw and joins Tyrants. Because of lots of dissapointments and lies of Evil he was removed from the roster. Blitzkrieg is since September 2005 the monster behind the arsenal.

Since Blitzkrieg's recruitment the horde went straight upwards, Tyrants marched into endless international live-battles, together with Bands like 
Six Feet Under, Kat, Morrigan, Debauchery, Darkened Nocturn Slaughtercult, Fluisterwoud, Sauron, Project Peacemaker, Moros, Ars Moriendi and many more...

The first record "Black Metal Warfare" was released by Black Edge Records in Summer 2006, after the debut, Graveghoul was kicked out of the band and the Tyrants marched on as a quartet.

Tyrants are:

Gruol - Vocals
Ördögvér - Guitars
Rammpage - Bass
Blitzkrieg - Drums

http://www.tyrants.at

2)Tyrants are a minimalist art-punk band from Portland, Oregon.  Tyrants formed in 2006. They disbanded in 2016.

http://www.tyrants.bandcamp.com

3)Tyrants are a hardcore band from London, England. Tyrants formed in 2010 and have just released a four track demo.

http://tyrantshardcore.bandcamp.com/album/tyrants <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tyrants">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.