Tyranny Enthroned is blackened-death metal band from St. Louis, Missouri. 
facebook | youtube | bandcamp | twitter | merch | soundcloud
Formed In: 2007
Hometown: St. Louis, Missouri
Genre: blackened death metal | death metal
Record Label: Blast Head Records

Band
Steve Lee :: Drums | Percussion
Anthony George :: Bass
Jesse McCoy :: Guitars | Vocals
Gabe Price :: Session | Live Guitars

Biography
Tyranny Enthroned is blackened-death metal band hailing from St. Louis, Missouri. Starting in 2006 as a solo project turned full line-up in 2007 with Winston Alvarez(guitars) Jesse McCoy(guitars/backing vocals) Anthony George(bass guitar) Ryne Jones(lead vocals) and later recruiting Steve Lee(Drums) to begin playing live shows. Winston Alvarez leading in a different musical direction and parted ways with the rest of the band. The remaining four continued playing local shows and began to build a fan base, the band decided to record an E.P. "Eulogy" at firebrand recording. 

E.p. in hand, Tyranny Enthroned would later perform alongside grindcore legends PHOBIA, and Putrid Pile at the “Mid American Metal Fest” in 2008, promoting their anti-theistic themes and philosophies to a broader audience.With solid music and recording, the band would share the stage with bands such as Origin, Vital Remains, and Goatwhore. After opening for Origin a second time, the band was discovered by Scott Fuller of Abysmal Dawn also on the tour and a proposition was made. 

In the spring of 2012, Ryne Jones was let go from the band due to personal and musical differences. Tyranny returned to Firebrand Studios alongside 
Scott Fuller's Trench Studios/Sinminister Productions to begin recording their debut full-length "Born of Hate" set to release in summer 2012. Their debut album "Born of Hate" bends the traditional confines of blackened death metal with sadistic precision and technical loathing. After recording, the band brought Winston Alvarez back in to the group. Now with Steve lee(drums) Anthony George(bass) Jesse McCoy(guitars/lead vocals) and Winston Alvarez(guitars/backing vocals) the band has a driven and focused lineup. 

Tyranny Enthroned is a band bringing a European influenced black/death hybrid style to the United States. Along with a precision for combining dark atmospheric black metal with a brutal and crushing form of death metal. Equipped with professional gear and a touring vehicle, Tyranny Enthroned is a force to be reckoned with in the metal scene! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tyranny+Enthroned">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.