Tytan is a NWOBHM band formed in 1981. Kevin Riddles & Dave Dufort had both left Angelwitch,  Kal Swan came on recommendation from Paul Samson. The first line up was Norman 'Kal' Swan (Vocalist), Steve Gibbs and Stuart Adams (Guitarists), Kevin 'Skidz' Riddles (Bassist) and Dave Dufort (Drums). Tytan's first concert was in January 1982 at the Marquee Club, London. 

On the 26th of March 1982 a live session was broadcast on the BBC's Friday Rock show. The songs played were; Cold Bitch, The Watcher, Far Side of Destiny and Blind Men and Fools. In late 1982, Tytan signed to the Kamaflage label and released the 7" single Blind Men and Fools / Ballad of Edward Case and the 12" single Blind Men and Fools / Ballad of Edward Case / Sadman.  

In 1983, Tytan began recording songs for their upcoming album at Ramport Studios in Battersea.  The songs recorded were; Blind Man and Fools, Far Cry, Don't Play Their Way, Women on the Frontline, Rude Awakening, Hold On, Nothing Ever Lasts, Forever Gone, Money for Love and Far Side of Destiny. During the recording of these songs, the line up was now; Kal Swan (Vocalist), Steve Gibbs and Steve Mann (Guitarists), Kevin Riddles (Bassist) and Les Binks (Drums). The Kamaflage label went bankrupt and the album with these songs was never released. 

 The last known line up of the band was; Kal Swan (Vocalist), Steve Gibbs and Steve Mann (Guitarists), Kevin Riddles (Bassist) and Simon Wright (Drums). The band broke up in late 1983 but later reformed.

The label  Metal Masters purchased the rights to the Tytan songs and in 1985 released the album 'Rough Justice'. The song list for this album is; Blind Men and Fools, Money for Love, Women on the Frontline, Cold Bitch, Ballad of Edward Case, Rude Awakening, The Watcher, Far Cry, Sadman, Forever Gone, Don't Play Their Way and Far Side of Destiny.

In 2012, an invitation to perform at Keep It True XV Festival in Germany saw Tytan reform with a revised line-up. Joining original band members Kevin Riddles, Steve Gibbs and Steve Mann were vocalist Tom Barna (from the band Diamond Faith), Andrew Thompson on keyboards, and Angel Witch drummer Andrew Prestidge.  Steve Gibbs left the band in early 2014. Drummers Chris Benton and then Mikey Ciancio joined during 2012 and 2013 respectively, and between 2015 and 2017 James Wise took over the role, followed by current drummer Seth Markes. Meanwhile, Dave Strange joined the band in November 2014, when Steve Mann departed. Dave Strange was replaced in 2021 by guitarist Peter Welsh. Tom Barna's replacement, Tony Coldham, performed his last show with the band on 13 October 2018, as he had decided to concentrate on his other outfit, The Deep. In December 2018, the band recruited vocalist Grant Foster. In 2021, Tony Coldham returned to complete the current Tytan lineup.

In 2017, Tytan released their follow-up album to Rough Justice, 'Justice Served, The band continues to tour throughout the UK and to appear at British and European festivals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Tytan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.