About UDK - From Sacred To Profane / New Album 2008
Concepción is well known as "The Cradle of Chilean Rock", and it’s the city where the band was formed.

UDK rose from the ashes of former 1993 rock festival winners "Trauma". They battled their way through the Chilean Metal scene with a superior level of sound, that crossed most borders into the country, reaching ears into the latinamerican metal scene.

Since March of 1996, UDK has been a solid representative of fighter bands, they were the first in Concepcion to do a different music among Death, Grind and Heavy Metal bands.

In 1997, they made the move to Santiago to proceeded with a five years career building the project, doing tours, recordings, live shows, line-up changes, and shipping promos to Indie and Major labels all over the world. A night of luck, one label executive from Free Noise Records caught a UDK show and immediately wanted to sign them.

This alliance produced the November 2003 release of "Hands that Feeds". Official launchings in Santiago and Concepción were held to promote the album as well as all the live dates the band did along the country and outside it, as the shows offered in Argentina and Uruguay. As part of their promotion, the video of the single "Rechazo" aired. The reviews from websites and music critics like Rockaxis.com were very positive.

The years of 2004, 2005, and 2006, the band toured throughout part of South America and Chile to promote the LP. The end of 2006 had the band finally focusing on their new record. They had demoed all tracks and were ready .

2007, bought the most difficult change in their career. Cristian Villagran (drummer) was replaced by Omar Marchant former member of Stomoxys. The band now continued to re-work their sound at SADE studios. This new LP includes two acoustical instrumentals with eight of the bands’ signature extreme-thrash metal tunes.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/UDK">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.