There is one band named Ulcer.   There is a couple of metal bands that were too lazy to search to see the name Ulcer was already taken.


!. Ulcer is a high energy techno-industrial dance band formed in 1994 by Mike Barber and Dennis Moorhead. After releasing their first self titled CD in 1994, based out of Las Cruces, New Mexico, Ulcer began playing around the southwest where they opened for many touring acts in the "techno" and "rave" scene. By the end of 1994, Ulcer found themselves headlining and selling out their own shows.

1995 brought about the release of the band's second CD titled "Crawl". Along with the second CD and new songs, Ulcer teamed up with Lizard Light Productions to bring some "video eye candy" to their shows. Towards the end of 1995, the band would find themselves with yet another additive to the music. That additive was Bobby Jones on guitar. Although Mike flirted with the idea of adding guitar to the mix, nothing seemed to fit until Jones came along. Ironically, Jones and Barber never played or practiced together before their first encounter. Hilton Ballroom, 1995, Ulcer is performing their one and only cover song, "The Wall". Jones and his band are waiting to perform after Ulcer and Jones decide to walk out on stage, guitar in hand, and... the rest is history.

Going on to play for the next two years, Ulcer released their third and latest CD in 1998 titled "On Your Knees" at which point Barber and Jones relocated to the Portland, Oregon area and Dennis Moorhead went his separate way...

After playing briefly in the Portland area, Mike and Dennis took on several side projects. They were recording their fourth CD titled "Split" due to be released summer 2007.

2) Ulcer is a Death Metal band from Poland formed in 2006. It features members of Blaze Of Perdition and Abusiveness and has released their debut album in 2007. Official Myspace site: http://www.myspace.com/ulcerdeathmetal


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ulcer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.