School friends Rhys Edwards, Joseph Stone and Ben White have worked with each other in bands since 2002. The Enigma Project were formed in Reading, Berkshire in 2002 by Edwards, Stone and White with Sam Pilsbury and George Simpson. Simpson was replaced in 2005 by Joseph Stone. They signed to Automator Records and released their debut single "Astronaut/Microcosm" in July 2005, plus the follow up EP "Scenes of the 21st Century".

In 2007, The Enigma Project changed their name to Tripwires and released the singles "Kings & Queens" and "Just So You Know" the following year.[5] The songs were picked up by national radio and championed by the likes of Huw Stephens and Steve Lamacq. The same year the band performed on the BBC Introducing stage at Reading and Leeds Festivals. The band began work on their debut album "Spacehopper" in August 2010, and was set for release in April 2001 via Club AC30. However, the album was scrapped and the band parted ways with the label. The band re-recorded the album in New York with producer Nicolas Vernhes, which was eventually released in June 2013 via French Kiss Records. They self released their second album "Watermelancholia" via Bandcamp in May 2015. The album was recorded in London and Berlin through 2013 and 2014.

In Spring 2014, Edwards began working on new material in Berlin with Reading school friend and sometime Tripwires live guitarist Rhys Williams. On returning to England, they re-located to Homerton, East London where they completed the album at a shared house named KEN with drummer Callum Brown and fellow Tripwires members Joseph Stone and Ben White. The band made their live debut in London in May 2015. Soon after saw the formation of 'Oysterland', a self-curated night that combined the band's earliest live performances with a series of art exhibitions. They released the "The Album Paranoia" in February 2016[17] and embarked on a UK tour the same month. In September 2016, the band released stand-alone single "Everything: All The Time". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Ulrika+Spacek">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.