Uma2rmaH (the first name "Umaturman") - famous Russian band performing pop-rock.

Originally comprised of brothers Kristovskiy - Sergei and Vladimir, who named the group after a favorite actress Uma Thurman. Later concerts were hired for additional musicians: Alex Ernst - keyboards, Sergei Solodkin - drums, Alex and Yuri Terletsky Kojak - lead guitar, Alex Kaplun - keyboards.

Gained notoriety after Radiohits "Praskovya", "Uma Thurman" and the song sounded in the final credits of the film Night Watch.
Group three times winner of the Muz-TV and "Best Newcomer 2004" award according to MTV RMA.

History

   Uma2rmaH group was formed in July 2003, when brothers Kristovskiy and Vyacheslav Butusov in Nizhny Novgorod studio recorded demo album, which consists of 15 songs. He was sent to Moscow for the record company.
   The first public performance of the group was held in Moscow in December 2003 (the day of birth of Kristovskiy) in the club "16 tons" at a concert Zemfira. Friends, inviting them back as a birthday present, is already there told his brothers that they will be able to go on stage and together with the singer to perform his song "Praskovya" (which they also record previously transferred itself Zemfira and she liked it) .
   The first clip group was removed on March 23-24, 2004 in the cities of Yalta and Gurzuf on the same track, which has become by the time a hit. In 2004 he published a debut album and the group - In the city of N.
   Work of the group became interested in the film's director, "Night Watch" Timur Bekmambetov, and invited them to record the soundtrack to the film. The film was a big hit at the box office, and the main song for a long time remained on the top lines of many of the charts. Were then removed two more clips: "Sorry" and "Uma Thurman"
   October 16 the group is the winner at a ceremony in Russia Music Awards "Best Debut."
   The group has a record at a rock festival "Invasion".
   Also Kristovskiy brothers are the creators and arrangers title song series "Daddy's Daughter."
   In 2010, participated in on the cartoon "Belka and Strelka. Star Dogs. "
   Also in 2010 gave two appartment - March 12 (Palace of Culture. Zueva) and November 25 (Club "Mao").
   In 2011, released its fourth album, "In this city all crazy," are nominees of the Muz-TV in the category "Best Rock Group," but inferior to the group of "Mumiy Troll".

Composition
2003-2004

    Vladimir Kristovskiy - vocals, guitar
    Sergei Kristovskiy - guitar

2004-2005

    Vladimir Kristovskiy - vocals, guitar
    Sergei Kristovskiy - guitar
    Gennady Ulyanov - bass guitar

2005-present

    Vladimir Kristovskiy - vocals, guitar
    Sergei Kristovskiy - bass, backing vocals, vocals
    Sergei Solodkin - drums
    Yuri Terletsky - solo guitar
    Alex Kaplun - keyboards <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Uma2rmaH">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.