There are 2 bands named Unblessed
The heavy/speedmetal band from Tonopah, Nevada U.S.A.
Unblessed was formed in Tonopah, NV in 1991 by vocalist James Peterson, drummer Travis Jorgensen and guitarist Chris Brekke. Inspired by Judas Priest, Iron Maiden, and Queensryche to name a few, Unblessed wrote and recorded their debut album, "Unblessed." Unfortunately, Unblessed disbanded in 1993.

In October, 2007, 16 years after Unblessed split up under a torrent of unpleasant circumstances, Chris set up a MySpace page to commemorate Unblessed and their music. Within weeks, messages began to pour in inquiring about the band and whether or not any CDs were still available. Travis and Chris scraped up the last of the remaining CDs and put them up for sale.

This new and unexpected interest in Unblessed inspired the guys to reunite and begin working on a brand new Unblessed CD. In the summer of 2008, Chris and Travis spent a week in the studio working on new material. In the summer of 2009, Chris and James (who had not seen one another since 1993) got together to work on vocals for the new material. In January 2010, guitarist Brian Tharas joined the band – bringing a fresh new perspective to the band, in addition to killer guitar solos.Released The Devil's Fifth in 2011.The new songs, while retaining that quintessential Unblessed sound and feeling, have a more modern-day edge that fans will no doubt enjoy as much as their original 1993 CD.The music of Unblessed continues to touch old-school metal fans who long for screaming vocals, thunderous drums and killer guitars. Metal fans rejoice! "The Unblessed Will Rise!"

And the Death/Black Metal from Chile, South America

UNBLESSED was formulated during 1999 as an attempt by guitarist Paul Callahan and guitarist Jorge Castro to fuse Black Metal with Gothenburg Death Metal style. Joining the pair would be drummer Ivan Graepp and subsequently bassist Felipe Rodriguez.

During 2001 frontman Diego Yañez was inducted to complete the first Unblessed..s line-up, but by the following year his position had been taken by Roberto Barraza for recording of the demo session 'Monolith From Beyond'. that was recorded in Spectro studios at 2002, the changes in line up make to the band upload the demo in their website for free, this opened a lot of gates for the band.

UNBLESSED would lose the services of both Barraza and Rodriguez, necessitating Callahan taking lead vocal responsibilities. Gerardo Hormazábal came in to cover bass in March of 2003 but shortly after the band found itself drummerless. then Jorge Castro leaves the band and he is replaced by Rodrigo Tuteleers, Ivan Graepp is replaced by Carlos Retamales. Then Blackgoat recs. produced as EP ¨Monolith from beyond¨ at 2004. This line up continue until 2005 when Hórmazabal and Tuteleers leave the band.

Now the line up is Paul Callahan (guitar/vocals); Jonathan Reig (bass); Carlos Retamales (drums) and Rodrigo Brissos (guitar). The band has played in Temuco, Iquique, Arica, El Monte and in Santiago they..ve played many times

Now the band is finishing the mix process of his debut album called "Burning Your Faith", searching for label and with plans to release an official dvd, a clip and touring.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unblessed">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.