There are multiple artists with the name "Unbreakable":
1) A Norwegian hardcore band
2) A Belgian hardcore band
3) A Moldovan band
4) A German hard rock band

1)
Four friends playing hardcore and keeping it real. The band started out in the beginning of 2007 in Stavanger city on the west coast of Norway.

2)
Unbreakable is a Belgian hardcore band.

3)
The two singers, Pavel (24) and Sergiu Caruntu (22) were quite young, about 8 years old when they started to deal with music. They studied in musical school to fulfill their parents wish. Although they weren't musicians, they thought that the brothers should learn music. As they studied in music class, they played a lot in a chorus, they played different instruments, Pavel played the whistle instrument first, later the clarinet and Sergiu played the violin. They gained experience as members of their first band, "Escape" which was founded in 2003 with another 3 boys (singers). It was a pop music band and it existed for two years, then, they met Alex Brashovean, a popular Moldovan composer, who composes 80% of the nr1 hits in his home country, Moldova, and lots of hits in Romania and worldwide. At that time Alex was very young, 17, and the brothers met him at Moldovan national final of Eurovision Song Contest in 2006. Alex proposed a song for the band "Escape", but Pavel and Sergiu decided to leave that band – to found "Unbreakable". Alex Brashovean became their music producer and composer, while Elena Buga was writing the lyrics for the band. With this strong collaboration they were improving day by day and getting better and better. They participated in several contests, like GBOB Moldova in the fall of 2007 or "Battle of the bands" on a website for unsigned artists - The-Muzic.com, which they won as the highest rated artist and they are nr1 on the chart since their registration on the site. They are gathering more and more fans all over the world, from Japan to Texas and their song is played on several UK radio stations. Although they were born in Chisinau (Republic of Moldova), their dream is to get noticed out of Moldova, in bigger countries like the United Kingdom where such musicians have more chance to prosper. To prepare for the international market, they changed the language of the songs from Romanian to English.

4)
German hard rock band whose debut Knockout was produced by former Scorpions drummer Herman Rarebell.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unbreakable">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.