..It was in the year of 1999, when four friends started a project called BLASTOFF. The idea since 1996 and was common to the members: Sandro Augusto - vocals, Luís Augusto - bass, Geábero (Geo) - drums, that invited Nilson Castelo to the guitar. Parallel to the band, Nilson met Demétrio Mützenberg in the University, Where both attended the History College. By knowing that Demétrio was a member of a then recently formed band, ANTHROPOPHAGICAL WARFARE, invited him (by the year 2000) to join BLASTOFF, assuming the second guitar. The band counted on the experience of Luís Augusto and Geábero that had already played together in Brutal Desfiguration in the middle of 90's. Parallel to BLASTOFF Nilson, Sandro and Demétrio thought about forming another project which were open to epic and historical themes (academic formation of them), with a sound that suits such versatility. In spite of not having a definition about the project’s name indeed. It was denominated SKYBLAST for a while. This project took form around 2004, when Erik Cavalcanti (ANTHROPOPHAGICAL WARFARE), was invited to take charge of the drums. In that moment, was needed a bass player to be found to join in, In 2005, BLASTOFF stopped the activities even before letting any official recording registered, and Sandro and Nilson's focus turned back to SKYBLAST, in which they betted their cards to keep on going with their activities into Recife's metal scene. The project became their main band. The years of 2005 and 2006 passed and the SKYBLAST waited the chance to work on an intense basis for the "Demo Tape" being recorded. Nilson invited a friend that played bass in a black metal band called NEROS BENEDICTIOS. Alexsandro Borges, then, became the newest band member, and would contribute pretty much to the band. Due to time and work questions, Demétrio and Erik took a break to dedicate themselves to A.W., that was in the process of shows and preparing for the recording of their "debut cd", fact that made Nilson, Sandro and Alexsandro wait for the possibility that Erik could continue with the now named, UNCIVILIZED. In 2007, with the return to the studio activities, the UNCIVILIZED, from the six months stop, redefined their goals and set a deadline to record the "demo" in September of the current year. The idea of making a sound open to the historical themes needed an absolute agreement between the members, intending to let the various influences of each member could be put, creating also, something original, according to each other critical eye, not with the impositions of the idealizers Sandro and Nilson, but rather with a solidified formation of "a spirit or common ideal to all: to play death/epic metal". With the line-up defined, Nilson, Sandro, Alexsandro and Erik searched, before anything else, the recording of a "demo" to registrate the work that grew up at each rehearsal. Then, in 2007, the band had a set list consisting of nine songs ready and other ones on the run. Three songs were chosen between the first ones that were written, such as the song titled Ulfhednar, written in 1999, from the BLASTOFF times, Hidden in Darkness Veil for the track two and as a third track, the second older song, Teutoburgerwald, written in 2000. At the August 31st, 2007, the group entered the studio to start the recordings of the so longed Demo. Counting on Adriano Leão's big partnership in the mixing process. Little by little, UNCIVILIZED defined, their first register, in fact <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Uncivilized">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.