Valkiria (ex-Uncreated light) – is a project of a guitarist, composer and arranger Artem Mokriy and a vocalist Helena Musienko.
The main themes of the creative work are directed to revealing of the human inner world and revival of the forgotten ideals.

Country: Kremenchug, Ukraine
Year of foundation: 2008 
Band of style – Symphonic Progressive Metal. 

The group was created in 2003 and existed under the New Land name. During that time the group formed its own style, took part in many Ukrainian festivals and made a recording of a debut promo-album named The Greatest Battle.

From January till December, 2008 a new album called Whom Should I Blame was recorded. During this period they took a decision to change the group’s name to one which could correspond to philosophic ideas of the lyrics and musical thought.
After long searches the group takes a decision to be named Uncreated Light. Literally, Uncreated Light means “light not made by hands” or “light which exists eternally”. The new name of the group is closely connected with the lyrics of its songs, which is mainly directed to exposition of the human inner world. This name symbolizes that inner light, which everyone has and which helps us to create, build up and reveal our inner world.

By the end of June, 2009 Whom Should I Blame album  was released by the Uncreated Light group on the Mals, Russian progressive label.
This album is quite topical due to rich orchestral parts, stressed by the interesting reeves of guitars, technical solo parts and also by the brilliant classical voice of the vocalist.
Album “Whom Should I Blame…” was released on 25th  June, 2009 by MALS Ltd. - Record Label / Distributor 

2010 - 2011 year - band involved in the accumulation of material and recording a new album
In 2012, the band changed their name to The Valkyrie
October 2, 2012 at the leading Russian label "Irond" released full-length album Valkiria "Holy Fire" 

In support of album  - the clip Valkiria (ex-Uncreated Light) - Dolia i Nedolia http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=ltUNLgQMMfM

Members:
Artem Mokriy – guitarist, composer, arranger, lyric
Elena Musienko – vocal, music
Yuriy Trihminov – bass-guitar
Andrey Samogorodskiy – drums 

Ex-members:
          Victor Bilan – drums 
          Ilya Mamikin - bass-guitar

All information about the band can be found on our website: 
www.myspace.com/uncreatedlightua
http://www.myspace.com/valkiria.ua
http://vk.com/valkirieua <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Uncreated+Light">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.