Undermine is a four piece metal band from Newcastle Australia. They are heavier than your mum. Their official webpage is www.myspace.com/undermineaustralia. There are a few bands called this worldwide but they were formed in 1997. I think they were the first.

Bio
From Newcastle Australia comes the latest crew of audio assaulters collectively known as UNDERMINE. The aggressive power of  UNDERMINE’S  sound has distinguished this band from all others in the surrounding area. Their reputation for enthralling the crowd and igniting the mosh has led them from garage bound suburbanites to local band openers to the likes of SUPERHEIST, ALCHEMIST, THE BUTTERFLY EFFECT, JERK, COG, SEGRESSION and Swedish hardcore band 59 TIMES THE PAIN. UNDERMINE has relentlessly worked on their sound of cross genre sound diversity. With an emphasis on old-school values and new school musical sensibility, UNDERMINE are posed to take on anyone or anything that is out to stop them. This band has but one goal: the constant strive to spread their music to those that prefer the heavier side!

After the release of Bulletshock (produced by Lamar Lowder Jerk) the band wrote some of its strongest material to date. With new bass player Rachel the band is set to return to the stage in 2005 with a new outlook. 

The response from the album has all been positive with UNDERMINE receiving national radio airplay on FULL METAL RACKET and stations in Newcastle, Western Australia, and Brisbane. Local press releases have also reviewed the album with praise.

Channel V has already taken an interest in the band with the inclusion of “24 lazy eyes” on the soundtrack to a short film that the network produced as part of the Newcastle Shoot Out festival. With the band finishing their first video clip “Sweet as Innocence” the national exposure increased through the means of Rage and Channel V. The clip found itself getting regular rotation and it was slotted amongst bands such as LINKIN PARK, METALLICA, KILLSWITCH ENGAGE and STAIND

UNDERMINE have also been featured in an issue of OUTSIDER magazine with a track included on Sweating Bullets 5, a nationally distributed CD through Roadrunner Records.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Undermine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.