Undersmile are a Female-Fronted Sludgecore band from Oxford, England.
They are-Taz Corona-Brown on Vocals and Guitars, Hel Sterne on Vocals and Lead Guitars, Olly Corona-Brown on Bass Guitars and Tom McKibbin on Drums.
They grew up to the strains of Melvins, Mudhoney, Hole, Babes In Toyland etc and are influenced by the slow/heavy sound of the early 90's as well as bands such as Harvey Milk, Swans, Pissed Jeans....
Hel and Taz have been writing and playing music together since 2006. They have since gone on to be described in such verbose terms as "bloody awful" "horrible" and "disgusting"

Reviews-
Some serious girl rocking in a shockingly male-dominated genre, Undersmile prefer slow and spooky over fast and brutal. Imagine Linda Blair of The Exorcist fronting Melvins or Flipper. In a cave. At midnight. So seriously sludgy you have to wash the grime off your skin afterward and while they may take things very, very slowly, like an oil tanker, they're unstoppable." - Nightshift Magazine

"A Sea Of Dead Snakes, is an intoxicating slab of doomy-sludgy heaviness which is absolutely mandatory for any swamper."

"Melodies are sinister but infectious as they possess a distinct groove. Undersmile make a haunting, crushing blend of heavily distorted, psychedelic-tinged, sometime dronish doom-sludge metal variably sharing features with the tunes provided by other swamp-hosted bands like Drone Throne, Wizard Smoke, Dopefight, Ultralord, Lords of Doubt, etc." - Sludge Swamp

"Undersmile (are) a four-piece playing something the experts call “sludgecore;” indeed, it is, but it’s their own very singular brand. They show the expected hallmarks of this genre, the big death-march riffs and the slow but unrelenting rhythm section laying waste to all in its way. Their biggest asset however, is the haunting harmony vocals from Hel Sterne and Taz Corona-Brown; the way their voices drift together is somewhat enchanting, as if two damned souls are entwined in some kind of slow motion combat. Contains unadulterated Doom." - Music In Oxford
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Undersmile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.