There is more than one artist using the name Undertaker

1) Undertaker 90's UK Hardcore/Breakbeat Producer from the UK

2) Javier PonceAKaUndertaker/ Mr Ponce/ killerbarbacoa/fAILED STATE
starts his career at the end of the year 2001, performing in small audience home party’s. At mid-2002 he joined the Club Skizzo crew where he performs for the first time in an international party, allways with an obscure and hypnotic taste on his sets with it he gained good local appreciation. In the year 2004 he abandons his first project called Vent Project (Classic Psytrance) and creates the Undertaker concept, a project targeted to the nocturne dance floor influenced by important artists like Xenomorp, Parasense, Fungus Funk, Azax Syndrom, protoculture, phyx, twisted system ,xatrik, absolum poizon , wizack twizack, aphid moon , avalon , smuhg , visua , Kashyyyk, Kindza Dza, The Galactic Brain and Osoom between many others. At the beginning he boundaried the project to exclusively dark, but in time he shifted to his now NightPsytrance and NeoGoa characteristic sound spinning among 146 to 149 beats per minute.
He has performed in cities such as, León, Mérida, Cd Juárez, Tampico, Saltillo, Torreón and many others. Also he has shared stage with important PsyTrance artists like Astrix, Delysid, Infected Mushroom, D-Tek, Kashyyyk, The Galactic Brain, Damage, Azax Syndrom, Psychotic Micro, Skazi, Void, Eskimo, Megalopsy, Frantic Noise, Digicult, Ephedrix, Pop Stream, Neuromotor and Hyperfrequencies and others. In music production he has been included in Mexican and International compilations to mention some:
VA Banana Split - (Psylosophy Recs) Portugal
VA Hispanodelia
VA Hispanodelia 2
VA Neurotrance by Erofex
VA Guerreros Aztecas(Biomechanix)
EP The Galatic Brain Vs Undertaker
VA(Tzolkin Recs)
At the end of the current year he will release his debut album: Army of Zombies, which is its tentative name. By the record label TZOLKIN RECS which is located in Mérida Yucatan.
In Parallel he runs two other projects with different music taste, Minimal Techno - Javier Ponce and Morning Trance - Failed State. ,darkpsytrance-Killerbarbacoa

3) Hardcore band from Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

4) speed metal band from Chicago, Illinois from the late 80s/early 90s <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Undertaker">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.