Undying: adj. 1.immortal. 2.unending. 3.that which cannot die. [existing in spiritual, form, dead but animate.]
Inc: abvr. incorporate; v / incorporated; adj. 1.form into one body or whole. 2 intr. To become incorporated, form one corporation. 3.combine (ingredients) into one substance. [based on Late Latin incorporatus ‘embodied’]


“Undying Incorporated”, a combination of two different words that form a common ideology. To create something that cannot be destroyed and that which is an explosive mix of various influences and ingredients. A band known for making some of the most overwhelming heavy music in today’s metal scene! Combining a lethal blend of high speed thrash riffing, aggressive hardcore breakdowns and death metal technicality with shades of math metal interplay, Undying Inc create a sound they can proudly call their own!

The band has been around since 2003 and has been consistently building a formidable reputation. Relentless intensity, sharp twists; rapid changes and fluid gear shifting make their music a lesson in monumental grind like ferociousness. The result is crushing! Like adrenaline in the bloodstream, UNDYING INC is at once powerful, explosive and yet abstract. UI live is a wrecking ball, having honed their destructive skills to such an extent, that violent mosh-pits break out at even the smallest venues they play.

The release of the first demo ”Existence Failure E.P” in 2005; was followed by their first album “Preface to Erase” in Dec 2006. The album consisted 7 songs and brought forward Undying Inc as an uncompromising and original metal act. The whole album was self produced and published under their home label, Undead Noise Records. Shortly after the release, original vocalist Amit left to honour other commitments. The summer of 2007 also saw the departure of long-time drummer Sangyt; thus leaving founder members Biz (Guitars) and Reuben (bass) to plot the next path in the second chapter of the band. After many auditions, the new and current line up was completed with Shashank (ex-Hollowcaust) joining on Vocals and Yuvraj (ex- Elixir, Inherited Curse and Nightmare on Elm Street) claiming the drum throne. Amidst all of this turmoil, the sound of the band further developed with more intricate layers, influences, technique & groove emerging.

With a new line-up and new ideas Undying Inc are all set to obliterate everything with another aural assault of pure and punishing heavy music with their new album “The Evilution Of A Manimal”.

Here is music that will make you want to spit into the treacherous facets of life, burn everything you hate and choke-hold the world you live in. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/Undying+Inc.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.