Unfathomable Ruination plays an intense and brutal style of Death Metal. The band, based in and around London, draws on influences such as: Suffocation, Origin, Death, Internal Suffering and Disgorge (US). They started writing material after a few practice sessions and went on to record a self titled EP distributed by American label Sevared Records. The EP helped establish the band as one of the most promising Death Metal acts in the UK, attracting attention from magazines such as Terrorizer and Sick Drummer Magazine amongst many national and international online-zines.

Since 2011 Unfathomable Ruination has shared the stage with established acts such as: Aborted, Severe Torture, Malignancy, Ulcerate, Wormed, Putridity, Cerebral Bore amongst others. Due to their success in record sales and exposure, Sevared Records officially signed the band for an album release.

In the spring of 2012 the band entered 16th Cellar studios to record their debut album ‘Misshapen Congenital Entropy’ produced by Stefano Morabito, the man responsible for the sound of bands such as Fleshgod Apocalypse, Hour of Penance, Vomit the Soul, Inherit Disease and Blasphemer.

The album was released on October 2012 and since then; the band has established a stronger profile within national and international territories in the metal scene. This helped them to accomplish various successful tours and festivals in 2013, some of these include: 

Castigating Europe Tour with Pyrexia and Beheaded, Bloodletting the UK Tour with Iniquity and Katalepsy, Bloodstock Open Air (UK), SWR Barroselas Metalfest (Portugal), Neurotic Deathfest (NL), Carnage Feast (Switzerland), as well as being asked to be the main local support for artists such as: Psycroptic, Cryptopsy, Disgorge (USA), Blood Red Throne and more. 

Unfathomable Ruination is now writing for their 2014 release, the band still plans to play shows live, until recording of the new material takes priority. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unfathomable+Ruination">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.