Unholy Heathen Terror, formed in the mid nineties fully embody the spirit of TRUE black metal.

The original line up of Unholy Heathen Terror was short lived and as such only released one record.

This debut E.P. "Plain Of Writhing Serpents" was held in high praise on the underground scene and was considered one of the last true necro sounding black metal recordings. Its production and style made it a very important record for those "in the know" and helped separate the "real" black metallers from the posers.

After a period of years and moving to London in the United Kingdom the band set to work on the follow up to "Plain Of Writhing Serpents" which was to be called "Klimefilgnol".
Only two recorded songs exist from this writing period the epic "Bow To The Hornmaster" and the track "Demmiksimes".

The sound of the band had changed and matured by this period mainly due to the inclusion of keyboards.
Keyboard duty was taken up by Snaga, the brother of vocalist Mardoth and this was on its way to taking the band to a new level out of then festering underground scene.

It was during these writing sessions that vocalist Mardoth was found dead in his home at the age of twenty six years old.
Guitarist Nadrich and drummer Gorath stood by their belief that this apparent suicide was more complicated than the police believed but at the request of Snaga decided to let it drop and the band went on an indefinite hiatus.

Now, six years later the original lineup of Nadrich, Iskar, Gorath and including Snaga have returned to writing and to finish the record "Klimefilgnol" in tribute to Mardoth.

Back from the dead the band Unholy Heathen Terror are no doubt sure to resurrect their legacy and once more be a band of choice for those true black metal fans in the know.

R.I.P. Mardoth, The hornmaster now bows to thee. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unholy+Heathen+Terror">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.