After two full length albums UNHOLD gathered forces for "Gold Cut" once again and set a task to merge beauty and beast into one single hybrid creature - fierce, intimidating, beautiful and compelling. "Gold Cut" is the outcome of four years of hard work, boiling down tons of material to 9 songs, clocking in at over fifty minutes. Once again UNHOLD were grateful to confide in the support of Serge Morattel (Knut, Shora, Prejudice, Tantrum a.o.). Nadja Stoller lent her enchanting voice for one track. For the mastering UNHOLD were lucky to engage Nick Zampiello (Isis, Converge, Unsane, Pelican, Scissorfight u.a.).
In order to pick up where "Loess" left the band, a toll had to be paid to take the whole venture a step further in making this record. UNHOLD, now in their prime, teamed up with a few adept aquanauts and took a deep dive into the bottomless pit of the project, everyone yielded, delivered and turned up pretty much unharmed. Sometimes it's called for - to let go of something dearly loved and craved in order to break up and explore new frontiers. Make the shift consciously and keep in honour what you leave behind. Work in modesty and harvest when time is due. The gold cut.

UNHOLD is active since 1992 and could maybe be described as a hybrid originating from early nineties metal and noiserock drenched in hardcore's disenchanting worldview and gutfelt rage.

As common denominator and crucial influence bands like Neurosis, -(16)-, Unsane, Barkmarket, Black Sabbath, Helmet, Clutch, Melvins and Kyuss come to mind.

UNHOLD can be pronounced in german or english. The term in german is might best be translated with something similar to an Ogre, a Misfit, someone maladjusted and unwilling to please.

Besides some tours through Europe UNHOLD had the pleasure to open shows for wellknown bands like Sick Of It All, Crowbar, The Ocean, Biohazard, Strife, Endstand, Transport League & Tribute To Nothing.


http://www.swissunderground.com/unhold/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unhold">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.