The beginnings of Unholy Ritual are to be found in the year 1997 when Erevos (vocals) and Bertram (drums) set the basis for the band in Athens (Greece). The following years saw many line-up changes and thus, no long-term results, but the group finally found a steady formula with the arrival of Q_Snc (synths), Drakhon (bass), Ianos (guitar) and Gareth (guitar) in 2000. In the summer of 2001, the first demo "Denial From Heaven" was recorded and it was met with good critics from both the public and the press (including the Greek Metal Hammer and the Bulgarian Xaoc Magazine). Imediately, Unholy Ritual started playing on various stages gaining a vast experience from live performances and proving their worth as a "live" act that can perform exceptionally both in Greece and on foreign lands. Unholy Ritual was the support act for big names like Mayhem, Marduk, Satyricon, God Dethroned and the Greek thrash metal band, Flames. Moreover, the band was the headline act for several concerts in Greece, but also in the Winterstorms Fest 2001 in Sofia (Bulgaria) and on the second day of the Metalheart Fest 2003 in Costinesti (Romania). The music of Unholy Ritual could be described as Majestic/Symphonic Black Metal, being influenced by bands like Emperor, Satyricon and Dimmu Borgir, but having its own personal identity. Elaborated and refined, the finish product embeds varied personal influences and creative efforts into a black metal nucleus. In the past 3 years, the band found itself dealing with more line-up instability and unable to proceed with the now highly anticipated first album. Despite these problems, Unholy Ritual could not disband as there was still an important musical statement to be made. Latest changes include Trauma taking the place of Ianos in the lead guitars, Nykterion joining in rhythm guitars and Blastphemer (also member of Greek metal band W.E.B.) taking over the drums. Armed with this line-up, the band is already back on the metal scene with live performances. At the moment, Unholy Ritual are also recording and mixing the first album "Rex Mundi" at M.I. Studios, in Athens, and it is now close to completion. The song that bears the band's name also features a guest appearance from Aphazel of Ancient. The ”Rex Mundi” Promo has already been met with very good critics from the local press: the Greek Metal Hammer, greekrebels.gr and metal-invader.com. As soon as the album is completed, the band will seek a contract with a company in order to distribute it <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unholy+Ritual">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.