There are multiple bands/artists called Unicorn:

1. a British folk/country rock band of the 1970s
2. a Swedish melodic rock band
3. a Japanese rock band, spelled ユニコーン in Japanese
4. a Dutch trance producer (real name: Ron van den Beuken)
5. a Belgian trance-duo Mauro Crisci & Tiziano Crisci
6. a Belgian trance duo consisting of Philip Dirix and Prince Peration
7. a medieval and early Renaissance music ensemble from Austria
8. a German (hard)trance and techno producer (real name: Sebastian Ostermann)
9. a Dutch hardstyle / 'gabber' duo consisting of Youri and Milos Gispen
10. a melodic power metal band from Italy
11. a heavy metal band from Germany
12. a dancehall / reggae artist from Jamaica
13. a Slovak progressive / experimental rock band formed in 2002 
14. a Polish rock band.
15.  Girls Planet 999 Connect Mission team
16. A South Korean girl group.

Additional info on some of the above artists...

1.  Unicorn from the United Kingdom played country and folk rock. They broke up in 1977. Several of the bands album were produced by (and featured contributions by) David Gilmour of Pink Floyd.

2. Unicorn was a progressive melodic rock band from Sweden, fronted by Dan Swanö (Bloodbath, Edge of Sanity, Nightingale). They released two full-length albums (Emotional Wasteland and Ever Since), two EPs (After Before and The Weirdest of Tales), and two demos (A Collection of Worlds I and A Collection of Worlds II). 

The band's style was a far cry from the brutal death metal Swano would later become known for. (Swano formed Unicorn as a young teen.) Unicorn is a very melodic, light progressive band. Nightingale comes closest to their style, though even Nightingale is much heavier. 

Swano is currently working on a new project called Second Sky. He says Second Sky is the new Unicorn. An album is expected in 2009.

3. Unicorn (ユニコーン) is a Japanese band fronted by Okuda Tamio(奥田民生), active in the 80s and early 90s. During that time the band released eight albums and nine singles. The band reunited in 2009. 

12. UNICORN from the U.S. plays noise drone electronics.  W. T. Nelson formerly of Bastard Noise (risen from the ashes of Man Is the Bastard) and Sleestak has released a split CD with noise artist 2673, a split CD with Bastard Noise, and a full-length titled "Playing with Light".  Less harsh and more melodic than previous projects.

15. Unicorn is a five-member girl group formed for Girls Planet 999's Creation Mission. The group consists of K-Group's Kang Ye Seo (강예서), Kim Bo Ra (김보라) and Kim Chae Hyun (김채현), C-Group's Huang Xing Qiao (黄星侨), and J-Group's Kawaguchi Yurina (川口 ゆりな). Together, the team performed and released "Utopia".

16. Unicorn ( 유니콘‬ ) was a five member South-Korean group under Cartoon Blue Company. Produced by R&B singer Kim Jo Han, they debuted on September 3, 2015 with the mini-album  UNICORN 'Once Upon A Time'. The group disbanded in September 2017. The group consisted of Rumi, Yujin, Gayoung, Sally and Winnie (who had left the group before their disband). Sally is now a soloist under the name Soseo and Gayoung is now a soloist under the name  Mauve with the debut single  My Cat. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unicorn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.