Unissex formed on 05 May 2009 in a small town in West Java, Indonesia, which is in the city for more precise Cimahi her. With Line Up early Abach (guitar), Jhepe (guitar), Occan (vocals), Bonile (bass), Erid (drums). Unissex carrying Deathmetal genre that express the Middle East that we named "The Middle East Deathmetal pitched". Currently Unissex under the auspices of a community that is renowned in Erode Erode Deathmetal (CDM). As its running time, there is a difference between personnel Unissex vision. His final one of our guitarists named "Jhepe" resigned from Unissex. In 2010 we had no line up changes, Unissex still survive with 4 personnel. We continue to work and keep the spirit, stage by stage we were conquered by the songs bernadakan middle east that we brought. The end of his mid-year 2011 our bassist named Bonile leave Unissex due to busy with his work activity. At the beginning of 2012 was our drummer named Erid leave Unissex. The only remaining living Abach (Guitar) and Occan (Vocal), we had a vacuum for a long time due to underground music diperhelatan not get replacement personnel who have the same vision. And at the end of his Unissex recruited guitarist of "Dieforlife" Adhit named to fill the vacancy on the Bass. Then followed Bonni (Ex Drummer Tortured) to fill the position of Drum. With the current line up:
- Abach (Guitar)
- Occan (Vocal)
- Bonni (Drum)
- Adhit (Bass)

Awakened from a long vacuum his late we got up and immediately fill one of the most prestigious events Deathmetal Erode Erode Deathfest is coinciding with the 3rd anniversary Unissex. Hopefully the current line up Unissex be more solid, more solid, and continue to work in order to be more successful for her future.
Now in the beginning of 2013 to present a paper Unissex back with the release of her debut EP album bertitle "Of Giza Necropolis" and released by Bhumidhuka Productions Record Label Origin Malaysia.
This EP Album track list from us:
1.Intro
2.Menyayat Dosa
3.Wangsit Izrail
4.Descrimatory Sinful Soul
5.Giza Of Necropolis

Release on:
Indonesia: 28 January 2013
Malaysia: 04 February 2013 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unissex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.