Since Renegade Hardware first picked up an Unknown Error tune back in 2004, there's been no stopping the born and raised Kent collective. Unknown Error burst onto the scene with their debut release of "Shadows" on Renegade Hardware in January 2005 which featured on Hardware's first release of 2005, The Chronicles vol.4 EP. This release went straight in at no.8 in the BBC 1Xtra DnB Charts and was featured on the Guerrilla Warfare CD mixed by Grooverider. Tracks on Trouble On Vinyl, Cymbalism and one of Moving Shadow's strongest EPs followed to take Unknown Error far beyond being newcomers.

The remix of the Kryptic Minds and Leon Switch's "More Like You" has been tearing up dance floors thought out world with heavy rotation from the likes of Calyx, Teebee, Noisia, Dylan, and Pendulum amongst many more, helping push it into the BBC 1xtra top 10 chart.

They've recently taken the title track and the a-side of the sampler for Renegade Hardware's Album "Fear No Evil". Amongst this huge release is also a remix of the Universal Project Track "Bleach" Unknown Error have a collaboration with Spor on Teebee's Subtitles imprint, and a joint venture with the likes of Chris Renegade, Evol Intent, Ewun, and Spor on the most exciting label of present "Lifted Music".


Where are you from?
We're both from Maidstone in Kent (UK).

How did you get into drum & bass?
Wow, that's a tough one. Once first introduced to it there was no turning back I guess.

When did you start playing breakbeat / jungle?
I couldn't tell you an exact date but it was early days just as hardcore was slowly turning into jungle then into dnb. Although it's all the same thing eh!

Where was your first DJ appearance?
First DJ appearance as Unknown Error was in Belgium alongside Calyx. It was amazing and we had a real lot of fun!

How did you guys meet up?
We both used to work at the same place, shared the same interests so decided to make some beats together and this is what came of it.

When was your golden era of drum & bass?
Not sure on exact dates but around the time of Ed Rush & Optical (Wormhole), Bad Company (Inside the Machine and Digital Nation) times: 90s I guess.

Who have you released records for?
Renegade Hardware, Trouble on Vinyl, Cymbalism, Moving Shadow, Defcom, Horizons and the new label Lifted (www.liftedmusic.co.uk), which is a label compiled of just 4 artists: Evol Intent, Ewun, Spor & Unknown Error. The label's run by Chris Renegade and it's a label for a bunch of friends to output good music.

Which are your musical inspirations?
In dnb: Calyx, TeeBee, Noisia, )EIB( and in other genres there are far too many to list: Hendrix, Pink Flloyd, Miles Davies, James Brown etc.

How do you describe your own sound / the sound that you produce?
We always try to do something musical, be it dark or the lighter side of dnb. Orchestral, twisted and rough.

How is work divided in the studio?
We try to be fair with everything so that we are both doing equal amounts, before Rob would do more producing and Jim would do more of the DJ work. But now we are both raising our standards in both fields.

Which track have you written that you are most happy with? Why?
Probably Hellraiser. It all came together so quickly and done some major damage on the dancefloor, but then there's the "more like you remix" which has probably gained the most support.

What does your top 10 at the moment look like? (2006)
1. Calyx & Teebee - Telepathy
2. Calyx & Teebee - Confessions
3. Unknown Error - Bluekey
4. Spor - Knock you down
5. Evol Intent - Silly Pants
6. Digital & Spirit & Phantom Force - Tpower and Codeine Remix
7. Limewax - Evolution
8. Audio - Warehouse VIP
9. Gein & Alliance - forgot the name
10. Phace - Pyscho LP

Which is your favourite venue worldwide?
The End - London

Which was your best gig/show in 2006?
So far Torun in Poland.

On which projects are you working on right now / what's coming next?
We've been taking a break from producing for a little while now because we've been so busy with gigs and had a dnb overload as far as producing. But rest assured: We are back in the studio now and are going to come back with a real impact.

With whom would you like to work together with in the future?
Calyx, Noisia, Phace. All of these are on the cards. Watch this space!

Which producer do you rate most at the moment?
Calyx, Teebee, Noisia, Phace and Spor.

Which DJs would you book to play if you had control of a radio station for a day?
See above! haha

Which one LP everyone should listen to?
Edit - Crying over pros for no reason.

What one dnb tune do you wish you'd written and why?
That's a tough one, maybe "The Nine" by Bad Company. It still goes off today like it's never aged. Classic! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unknown+Error">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.