There are several artists called Unloved.

1. Unloved (formed in Los Angeles, 2015) is a collaborative project that features Jade Vincent (vocals), David Holmes (programming & percussion) and Keefus Ciancia (keyboards & programming). Before forming Unloved, Vincent and Ciancia were the duo Vincent & Mr. Green. Unloved is inspired by a shared love of classic film music (Rota, Hermann, Morricone), 1960s girl groups (The Shangri-Las), 20th century electro-acoustic music (e.g. Raymond Scott, Ruth White, BBC Radiophonic Workshop) and smokey jazz chanteuses such as Julie London. Their debut album "Guilty of Love" was released in 2016, followed by "Heartbreak" in 2019. Many of their sings featured in the TV drama series Killing Eve. When not working in unloved, David Holmes is a producer and film scorer, Keefus Ciancia is a composer who scores TV shows, and Jade Vincent is a songwriter. 

2. Unloved is a female-fronted rock band from Leipzig (Germany). Its music transcends various genres like metal, electro, gothic, trip hop and jazz. Unloved is often compared to Garbage, Lark and Lacuna Coil. Legacy music magazine called Unloved "the German answer to The Gathering". 

Unloved's current line-up is Shya Hely (vocals), MR (guitar), Tschacke (bass guitar) and Clemens Frank (drums). Various guest musicians have collaborated with Unloved over the years such as Jens Maluschka and Andy Schmidt (both of Disillusion), Sascha Wuck (Fallera), Matthias Weber (Monotony 2000, Tarantella), Christian Maerz, Katharina Vogel and Anja Gemeinhardt.

Unloved's debut  EP "My Way To Run" was released in 2004, followed by another EP "Killersongs" in 2006. Their debut album "Pay One Bliss With Another" was released in 2015. 

www.unloved.info
https://www.facebook.com/UnlovedBand?sk=info

3. Unloved is a hardcore band from London, UK.
 www.myspace.com/unlovedfyp

4). Unloved is a hardcore band from Connecticut, USA.
unlovedct.bandcamp.com/
www.facebook.com/unlovedct <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unloved">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.