Unrefined was Finnish metal band from Espoo, Finland and is formed in 2003 under the name Hammer Of Justice.
On year 2009 Band has decided to stop playing together. But all members will continue to make music on new lineups.
The lineup consisted of  Eki (Drums), Jonttu (Guitars) & Pete (ex-Vocals) as founding members.
First the band started playing cover songs of various metal bands, such as Metallica and Children Of Bodom, but not much after the band already made their first own song called "Who I Am". In the Summer of 2003, the boys moved their practices to Eki's house, where he had his own drum kit set up. During this time, the band recorded the song "Vampires". When school resumed at the Fall of 2003, Mick (ex-Bass) joined the band. After Mick joined the band, Jonttu's schoolmate Robin (Guitars) joined up as well. During this time the band mainly focused on playing more cover songs.

During the Spring of 2004, the band wrote the song "Death Inside" and also recorded a raw practice version of it sharing it in the web, it became a huge success in mikseri.net, free Finnish website to share your own music. At the same time, the band played their first live show at the Kauniainen Youth Center. The band continued playing live gigs during this time, mixing their setlist with cover songs, and own songs. The band also participated in various music competitions. In the ääni ja Vimma music competition, the band made their way to the semifinals.
The band went on hiatus during the Summer of 2004, as they could not find a rehearsal space. This hiatus was short-lived, however, as the band found a rehearsal space in Fall of 2004. As a result of all of their hard work and long practicing, the band had produced enough material to make a worthwhile demo. The first demo was made in September of 2004 at Tauko Studios in Helsinki, Finland. The demo was titled "Awakening" and was well-received. After the demo being released, they continued playing gigs in various of places, mostly in Espoo-Helsinki-Vantaa area.
During October of 2004, the band wrote the song "In the Middle of the Night", using a five person crew. A small portion of this song was included on the "Awakening" demo. Unfortunately, in October of 2004, the band fired the bass player Mick due to various disagreements. Kimmo, a schoolmate of Jonttu and Robin, replaced Mick as the bass player. After this line up change, the band created a new demo, entitled "In the Middle of the Night", which had 4 complete songs on it, unlike the "Awakening" only had 2. Along with the creation of this demo came the changing of the band's name. "Hammer of Justice" became Unrefined. At the end of the year, they also moved to another rehearsing place to Leppävaara, a 5-band "cellar" being the youngest band there. In that place, the band also meeted a band called Imperanon, having 'em as rehearsing neighbours.

During 2005, Unrefined played many gigs and won themselves a local following, and slowly growing fanbase. The band also made a record, but it ended up a rather poor quality CD: ''Rejector of Light'', still containing 4 new songs, being spreaded throught the net. At the end of 2005, the original vocalist of the band Pete, was fired. Pete was replaced by a long-time friend of Kimmo's Matias. With the lineup change the band also moved to another rehearsing place, now more serious than ever, requiring more space and time to rehearse aswell, the place was and still is today, a large band center in Konala, Helsinki. After some time of rehearsing, the band noticed some familiar guitar tones behind-a-wall, it seemed, that the long time idol and icon of the band, Children Of Bodom rehearsed there, and the tones they heard, were Alexi Laiho's, the frontman of CoB's. That meant a lot to the band, obviously. Unrefined has been more active than ever, both in the studio and on the stage since then.

In the beginning of 2006, Unrefined entered the studio to record "Between" - demo. The year 2006 was the most gig busiest year for Unrefined so far, playing in several youth centers, band competitions and bars. At the end of the year 2006, the band recorded another demo from the songs that were being created during the Summer and Fall of 2006. Unlike the demo "Between", this demo named "Demo 2006" didn't turn out that ''serious matter'' as they didn't sell or send it much to anywhere, it was just released free-of-charge on the internet (myspace.com and mikseri.net), it was more like a work for themselves to close the book for a great year. The "Demo 2006" was later renamed as "Face in the Stars" - demo.

Year 2007 Unrefined continued playing gigs with bands like Born of Thorns, Malummeh, Sinclined, All Fall Dead, IconoFear and many others. They also succeeded to the semifinals of ääni ja Vimma band contest once again, playing a gig in Gloria, Helsinki for almost 100 people. After playing concerts at the Winter and Spring of 2007, the band agreeded to take it a bit easy for the Summer, drinking and enjoying the festivals. In the Summer of 2007 the band's bass player Kimmo decided to start his army service, and so the band didn't book any gigs for the upcoming Autumn. During the whole year Unrefined worked on a new material, and completed many songs and every member of the band got better and better on their job in the band.

In 2008 band started to work on their next release named "Rising From The Ashes" on January. Due to delays on the recording the release was delayed 'till summer. Demo contains 4 new songs and was released at August.
After releasing the "Rising From The Ashes" demo, band focused writing new material.
But those songs weren't never recored or played anywhere.

http://www.unrefined.cjb.net/

http://www.myspace.com/unrefinedband <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unrefined">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.