Having recently locked a deal with their home state-based Forcefield Records for the release of their debut full-length, False Light, Virginia's UNSACRED has just unloaded the first auditory rapture from the album via underground music/arts outlet, Cvlt Nation, with the crushing track, "Plague."
 
Recorded by Ricky Olson and mixed by Bryan Walthall and Ricky Olson at Rusty's and mastered by Brad Boatright at Audiosiege Engineering, UNSACRED's False Light delivers a punishing slab of seven tracks of bludgeoning black metal infused with spine-shattering low-end death metal infiltrations and driving punk-inspired beats. Merging classic elements with its contemporary delivery, it's more than a safe bet to state that False Light will incite the inner heathen in devotees of the works of artists including Craft, Horna, Arkhon Infaustus, The Secret and Mutilation Rites. Cvlt Nation's exclusive stream of the album's third track, "Plague," is joined by an appropriately grim write-up of the album's carnage, issuing in part, "When Unsacred drops the tempo down a notch, they hammer the riffs home like a train slowing down to plow a car parked on the tracks. When they go fast, they sound like they do performance-enhancing drugs. You won't find me philosophizing like a street preacher on this review. When you hit the play button on UNSACRED's False Light, it's moshpit time! This album doesn't stop and go without dynamics, though. They write carefully controlled songs that set up the best moments - the mid-tempo grooves that leave you headbangin' like a lunatic before knockin' your balls out of the park with the blast-sections."

Having formed in 2012, UNSACRED -- comprised of bassist/vocalist Hunter McCarty, guitarist Miguel Falcon and drummer Scott Bartley -- has issued three well-received independent EPs upon humanity in their short time together preceding False Light. Channeling primordial, threatening metal riffage and scathing vocal torment UNSACRED pumps their organic black metal full of punk-inspired rhythms and crust blasts; thus birthing an output fit for consumption by both devotees to the Scandinavian black metal sound and also to adherents of the more contemporary, black metal inspired acts who are currently wreaking havoc throughout the underground.
 
Watch out as Forcefield prepares to unleash False Light on LP and digital formats on December 9th. Preorders for the album are now live including package deals HERE.
 
Having performed regional live performances with countless local and national acts including Integrity, Toxic Holocaust, Gaza, Full Of Hell, Code Orange Kids, Ash Borer, Obliteration, Kylesa and more, UNSACRED is planning more widespread tour offensives in support of False Light which will be announced as soon as new dates are confirmed.

http://www.facebook.com/unsacredva
http://unsacred.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unsacred">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.