1) Metalcore band from South Florida, USA.

Until the End formed in January of 2000, due to the necessity for a sXe hardcore/metal band in South Florida with a modern twist. The band aspires to pass on their ideals they formed growing up, playing the music they love, and returning an affirmative message to the scene. Until The End is a favorite in South Florida, with an enormous fanbase. They are probably most known for their unruly shows with wild crowd participation and enthusiasm that is hard to forget. 

Its members are derived from some of the most celebrated hardcore bands to date. Chip works at Blockbuster and sqwaks for Dance Floor Justice. John was in Where Fear and Weapons Meet, Culture, and Morning Again. James also sings for Kiss The Barrel. In addition, John and Dan spend the majority of their time running Eulogy Recordings. 

Until The End's debut Eulogy release "Blood In The Ink", is a testament to the bands growth and fine-tuning. With throaty, deep vocals and a host of memorable songs with great sing-along potential, UTE may be compared to the likes of Hatebreed, Sepultura, Machinehead and Death Threat. The songs are harsh and sudden, with polished guitar riffs that convey their strong personal beliefs and convictions. 

UTE remains a dedicated force in the hardcore scene, with a tenacious grasp on ethical lifestyle and loyalty among its five members. 

Until The End's last CD, THE BLIND LEADING THE LOST was released in 2004. 

Until the End split up in September 2005. 


Until the End is;
James McHugh - Vocals 
Dan Mazin - Bass 
John Wylie - Guitar 
Sir Richard Walbert - Guitar 



eulogyrecordings.com/artists.php?band=1054


-----------------------------------------------------------ANOTHER UNTIL THE END-------
There is also another band formed in Warren, PA called Until The End. It's a group of young kids with amazing sound and talent. Their music is a mix of lamb of god and opeth. The band formed in 2006 and has been playing locals venues since then. Check out their myspace for more details.

http://www.myspace.com/utend

2) Death/Thrash metal band from Itaúna, Brazil. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Until+The+End">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.