Thessaloniki, Greece (2008 - present) 

Official Website: www.untilrain.com

Current Members:
*Cons Marg - Lead Vocals
*Theodore Amaxopoulos - Guitars
*Lef Germenlis - Keyboards
*Linus Abrahamson - Bass
*Matthew Vella - Drums

Studio Albums & EPs:
2009 - The Reign Of Dreams
2011 - Pandemic (EP)
2013 - Anthem To Creation
2017 - Inure
2019 - Season V

Until Rain is a progressive metal band which was formed back in 2008 in Thessaloniki, Greece. The band's music is a mix of many musical elements such as prog, melodic and experimental metal, art rock, electronic music sometimes combined even with extreme metal elements.

In July 2009 Until Rain signed with Steel Gallery Records for their first label release, the debut concept album, The Reign Of Dreams. The album was recorded during the first months of 2009 at Fragile Studios by Vangelis Yalamas in Athens, Greece. Its concept concerns dreams, but its scenario could be adapted to reality as a real and adventurous life story.

Until Rain quickly followed up with the EP Pandemic (February of 2011), which consists of 4 new songs and 4 bonus tracks (acoustic versions, radio edits etc), giving a taste of Until Rain's next full length release, blended with 2 tracks from the past, sounding heavier than the first album and more mature.

The band toured around Greece promoting those 2 releases throughout 2011 and 2012.

Later they started the recordings of their last full-length album Anthem to Creation, recorded at Fascination Street Studios by Jens Bogren in Orebro, Sweden.

The album has been released by Escape Music at 23rd August 2013. Only from the first months of its release it received praising reviews from around the world and also reached the top on many lists (Best of 2013 etc.)

The band has toured around Europe to promote this album along with Andromeda and performed in 15 European Cities this November & December of 2013 (London, Paris, Barcelona, Vienna & more).

UNTIL RAIN’s first album since 2013’s well received “Anthem To Creation” finds the band exploring the dark world of psychological/emotional abuse, loss and doubt and it presents the darkest side of Until Rain till this day.
Tempos got slower but also the soundscape got bigger and as always many many melodies and hooks will keep you head-banging and singing along to most of the songs of the album.
More “to the point” songs and less fiddling around lets the new singer of the band Cons Marg (know for his work with Arjen Lucassen’s Epic Choir) shine while the rest of the band lays the foundation of some really heavy & melodic contemporary prog metal.
The 2 main composers/lyricists of the band Lef Germenlis & Theodore Amaxopoulos are surrounded this time by the ingenious bassist Linus Abrahamson (known for his work with Andromeda & Constancia), the Maltese workaholic wonder Matthew Vella on drums and the multitalented Swiss/Thai female singer Donna Zed on backing vocals.

 Inure was recorded by Until Rain in various European cities (Thessaloniki, London, Gothenburg and Lausanne) and mixed/mastered by Daniel Cardoso of Anathema in Lisbon, Portugal.
( Anneke Anathema Van Giersbergen, Head Control System)
It features artwork by a new greek artist/designer Nassia Kefala and a hand drawn cover that completely represents the concept of the album and the duality of many inured people they they look lush on the outside and they are rotten on the inside.

They have also shared the stage with many artists over the years - to name a few: Psychotic Waltz, Jeff Martin (The Tea Party), Rotting Christ, Andromeda, Firewind, Wolverine, Septic Flesh & Leprous.
In 2015-2016 Until Rain performed in Prog Power Europe (Netherlands) and Metal Over Malta (Malta).

The band toured Europe April and May of 2017 visiting some cities for the first time (Berlin, Östhammar, Den Bosch, Zoetermeer, Gothenburg, Sofia, Bucharest, Belgrade, Nottingham) and revisiting London, Paris, Copenhagen and Thessaloniki.

During 2018 the band focused solely in the writing & recording of their upcoming album doing only one show in Prog the Islands festival, Malta, Dec 2018.

May 31st 2019 Until Rain return with their new album Season V, following up two years after the release of Inure. They hold the course and continue evolving to an amalgamation of alternative and prog metal. Dark and sinister but also melodic and fragile. This time with even heavier but at the same time even softer moments <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Until+Rain">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.