Unto Acheron is a Melodic Death Metal/Metalcore quintet hailing from Dallas, TX in the United States. They are noted for their Greek mythology-based image (“Greekcore” is their self-proclaimed genre status). They describe their music as a hybrid mixture of melodic death metal and metalcore.

Unto Acheron takes many influences from many bands, such as Oceano, As Blood Runs Black, Decades Of Despair, Wretched, Decapitated, As I Lay Dying and All That Remains, as well as non-metal influences to form a a huge and epic sound.

In August 2009, Brett (guitarist) set out on a solo project entitled “Beneath Haides” in order to channel his heavy Greek interest. Starting out as a traditional metalcore band, it quickly evolved into the Deathcore genre. Because of this new style, the name was soon changed to ‘Unto Acheron” and Brett acquired Blaine Mathis (guitarist) and Eli Jimenez (Drummer). Soon after, Chief (Bass) and Andrew (Vocals) joined the band and Unto Acheron worked on their sound and became a titanic beast of melodic riffs and heavy breakdowns. After personal issues arose, the lineup of the band went through several changes. During this time period, Unto Acheron was developing their sound even further and continuing to evolve to the very outskirts of deathcore into something new.

Towards the end of summer 2010, the band then acquired vocalist Kendel Jackson and bassist David Ramirez. After completing the writing process, Unto Acheron began to self-record what would become their full-length debut album. Old songs were upgraded and new genre-destroying songs were made for their collection of songs, and their musical prowess brought the attention of Ling Chi Records, an up-and-coming independent label. Owner Kit Kirsch took interest in the band and, after some talks were had, Unto Acheron signed to Ling Chi Records late 2010, opening them up to a broader audience. After some internal conflicts arose, David Ramirez was no longer able to play in the band and in the beginning of 2011, Unto Acheron acquired bassist Brandon Roehl. Later, due to personal issues he had to prioritize, Brandon was not able to be a part of the band anymore and in June of 2011, Unto Acheron acquired bassist Jay Jones. Because of intraband issues, in September 2011, vocalist Kenv Jackson was no longer a part of the band, and Unto Acheron quickly replaced the position with Sean McFarlin (Shroud The Sky, Vengeance With A Smile).

Unto Acheron’s first full-length release, which they worked extremely hard for, was released February 23, 2011 and is now available on iTunes and physically at shows. The band has a broad and bright future ahead of them, and plans for many things are under way. They have received much positive response off of their release and only wish to spread the music even further into the world.

They are currently recording and finishing their "CHAOS" EP, which will consist of several songs from their debut album re-recorded and with McFarlin on vocals Release date TBA. They always remember to keep the fans a number one priority. Unto Acheron has been featured on Take A Stand Media, Bandtraffic, Friday Music Reviews, Blastbeats and Breakdowns, and Music And Noise Magazine, as well as many other sites. Their online presence continues to grow as more and more people discover the epic movement that is… Unto Acheron.

Unto Acheron has shared the stage with Decapitated, The Faceless, All Shall Perish, Carnifex, Veil Of Maya, The Great Commission, We Are Defiance, Her Demise My Rise, I The Breather, The Red Chord, Animals As Leaders, Decrepit Birth, The Famine, Carry The Storm, At War With Androids, Burn This Day, Dethrone The Tyrant, Shroud The Sky, Ocean Of Apathy, Sound The Ruin, Of An Empire, Sleep Now Sivylla, and many more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unto+Acheron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.