There are three bands with the name Unveiled.

1) Black metal band from Finland.
Unveiled was formed in 1996 by Infection (guitar), Mr. Impure (guitar), Wiinikka (drums) and Hokkanen (bass). A few months after the actual birth of Unveiled, Nebiros joined the horde as the verbal blasphemer. The first demo, titled "Entrance My Night Immortal", was recorded in 1997 at J.R Studio and gained quite positive response from both the 'zines and the individuals who bought the tape. In 1999 Wiinikka was replaced by Gorath from Alghazanth. Also, Hokkanen departed from Unveiled and bass playing fell onto Infection's shoulders. In 2000 Unveiled entered Studio Watercastle in order to record a promotional tape consisting of four songs. Two songs from that promo were released by Shades of Autumn Prod. as the "7 " Suicide Inc.". Nebiros quit his growling in Unveiled and thus the responsibility for exhaling mockery moved onto Infection. In late 2001 Unveiled re-visited Studio Watercastle and recorded another promo which resulted in a deal with Woodcut Records. The debut full-length bastard, " Anti-God Behavior", was concieved in September 2002 in the same studio as the promos with Infection on guitars, vox and bass, Mr. Impure on guitar and with Gorath behind the drums. 

http://www.woodcutrecords.com/unveiled.html

2) Malaysian Brutal Death Metal band. 

3) Christian vocal group based in Baltimore, MD.
Discography
- 1999 - Unveiled
- 2000 - Everlasting Light
- 2001 - Where You Are Loved

Official site: http://www.unveiledministries.com

4) Unveiled is the solo project of Hansen. Each songs individual sound is further developed with a variety of guest musicians, vocals and engineers. Crudelis et invictus – The first album, back when Unveiled where a trio. More guitars, riffs and bombastic elements than the later records. Loved by Children radio programs and often used for role playing games. Silver – Ritual and magickal shades of darkness. A winter album from Scandinavia , with a heavy leaning on the runes. Released on the late World Serpent Distribution. Bragagild presents: Brag LTD 2 – One long and building track of ritual strength. The music was made for Bragagild to play before the concerts to focus the minds for what is to come. Chance meeting of Nurse With Wound and Unveiled on Charlottenborg - Split album between NWW and Unveiled. The Unveiled tracks are made up entirely of samples from the NWW and Current 93 back catalogue. Winter Songs - Four ritualistic tracks originally composed for a show with rev. Steven Leyba Johnson. (taken from Unveiled's myspace page)

Læs mere: http://www.myspace.com/unveileddk#ixzz11MhCqIXP


Official site : http://www.myspace.com/unveileddk <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Unveiled">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.