Urania is a stoner rock/metal band from Hungary. 
http://www.myspace.com/uraniastoner
https://www.facebook.com/Urania-122865107812261/
Summer 2010: originally meant as material for a new stoner/psychedelic rock project, the first riffs are born out of Aiwass' guitar. He intends to approach the genre not in a conventional way but from a personal and unique stand, to incorporate his ideas. Aiwass composes songs for the first demo, compiles youtube videos and names the one-man band "Urania". He mails the video for the track "Stonero...se" to the Hungarian Stonerblog webzine, curiously awaiting critics' comments.
Stonerblog embraces the demo with enthusiastic reviews and forwards it to several foreign music blogs and websites, which also publish mostly favourable reviews.
Meanwhile Aiwass tries to recruit band members, with little success.
He goes on to produce and release Urania's first CD, entitled "Carpathian Woodoo", on his own in February 2011. The album still follows the stoner/psychedelic rock genre with new tracks fitting the style.
The current band line-up begins to take shape in March when the three prospective members first meet at the Kyuss Lives! gig in Budapest. Damien Sixtus, Sly and Aiwass start practising in the summer. Kicking off Hungarian Stonerblog's 3rd Birthday Party, Urania's new line-up makes its live debut on 9 December 2011.

The most recent Urania is Max Lecrone's new musical project, following A Sinuous Skyline.

Another URANIA were formed in the year 2006, by musicians coming from various experiences: Giulio Sangirardi played for 15 years with psichedelic/shoegaze band Votiva Lux and released with them 3 cd's and several concerts in Italy and Europe, he also played with goth legend Wayne Hussey (The Mission, Sisters of Mercy) and welsh folk singer Brychan Llyr. Mimmo Mellace played with a dozen of bands to name but a few: Re Niliu, Il parto delle nuvole pesanti, Marta sui Tubi, Brychan, Claudio Lolli and many more, with several albums and hundreds of concerts held all over the world. Gianfranco Riga and Francesca Baccolini both hail from a jazz background. Roberto Passuti is a producer and soundtracks writer, who wrote many scores for films, documentaries and television, he's also a sound engineer and strings arranger. At the moment the band is writing the debut album scheduled for december 2006 and playing the first gigs with the new line-up.

4th Urania - Surf band from Palermo, Italy. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Urania">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.