It was in the end of 2005, after a long search for a vocalist, that the formation of “Urban War” was finally complete. At that time, Ricardo “Chipa” (vocals), joined Pedro “Espinha” (guitar), Emanuel “Nelo” (drums), Filipe (bass) and Chico (DJ).

The 5 elements of the band, brought a lot of different influences, from the heviest metal, to punk, ska, funk or even reggae, bringing life to a very characteristic sound that defines “Urban War”.). Since then, there have been appearing new songs and new ideas, and in March 2006, “Urban War” gave their first concert, that went beyond all expectations.). Many other concerts followed in different places in the city of Oporto and surroundings, such as “Maus Hábitos”, “Bar Condicionado”, “Maré Alta”, among others, until, in the middle of 2006 there was a setback. Chico (DJ) left the band and it forced a reorganization witch lead to change the rehearsal place and to the much considered decision of continuing without a DJ.).

New songs were created and the oldest ones had to suffer several modifications in a way to adapt to the new formation of the band. The “Urban War” became “heavier”, more cohesive and more alternative. The band was stronger than ever and ready to move on and get back to the concerts, witch happened in October of that sabe year. The first concert without DJ was the confirmation that there were conditions to continue with only 4 elements. It was time to go back creating new songs... 2007 Was the year of the consolidation of the band.

The “Urban War” were been defined with a very characteristic identity and there was a big investment in gear to improve the quality of the concerts. It was time to present the band and the first work (demo) named “7h3 WAR 1S C0M1N6” was recorded with two original songs (“Devil’s Throat” and “Unable to Die”). T-Shirts, stickers and pin’s were made to spread the work. 2008 Will be the year of the recording of the first EP and it will be made an even bigger bet in concerts. There will be introduced new works and expect meny surprises this year.... You can count on it!!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Urban+War">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.