In the end of 2004 Marcos decides to leave Soul Despair and form his own musical project; so, in the beginning of 2005, URBAN TALES is born, influenced by a variety of acts, which includes Anathema, Paradise Lost, Charon, Entwine, among others.

With a clear musical vision and all the members assembled, the band starts the recording of a pre demo, which gave them the opportunity to work with the talented and well know director Ricardo Capristano: after hear the band´s music, Ricardo invited Urban Tales to be part of the soundtrack to the dvd “Mais1”, a film that includes the most awesome images of surf together with some of the most promising bands in the Portuguese metal scene (like The Temple, SK6, Fiona@Forty, Urban Tales, and so on...).

After that, and with the path of their sound and uniqueness well marked, Urban Tales decide to record the official demo, Urban Tales (2006)... and that was it! Huge acceptance by the critics and the public, massive airplay, a videoclip for In purity, numerous awards (which included revelation band of 2006 and the inclusion of the demo in some of the “best albums of 2006” list) and a contract deal with Burning Star, all at once!

The demo also gave Urban Tales the title of  one of the most exciting and rocking goth metal acts of the planet, creating such a vibe and a huge expectaction on what to come next!

After months of hard work, blood, sweat and tears, Burning Star released the first album of Urban Tales, “Diary of a no”, in November 2007,  and, AGAIN, the expectations were pulverized... the album was released worldwide and SOLD OUT... it was acclaimed by the media, with expressions such as “... unique...”, “... the album of 2007...”, “... superb...”, “...MASTERPIECE!...”; the videos that promoted the album, “Farewell” and “Prison inside”, got massive airplay on MTV Headbangers ball; both of the singles got massive airplay during months in Portuguese national radios (and in metal radios all over the world)...

The music, the artwork, the production, the feeling that Marcos voice transmited, the wall of guitars, the power of the rhythm section, the beauty of the keyboards... all of that was praised and the reception of the audience was huge.

And all of that on the first record!!

As the new year starts, Urban Tales and their album were recognized in a great number of polls as best newcomers, best metal act and best album in 2007, giving them and “Diary of a no” a well deserved prize and acclaim.

As 2008 goes by, the band is working in new material, to be released soon, and they are proud to announce the association with Rarissimas, the association of rare diseases, for whom they compose the worldwide hymn, “Alive”, soon to be heard in a radio or tv station near you!

Urban Tales are:

Marcos César – Vocals
Tiago Borges – Bass
João Coelho – Drums
João Maia – Guitars
Jon Van Dave - Keyboards <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Urban+Tales">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.