Danish death-metal act Usipian was formed in late 1995 as Gothic Domain. After years of struggle in search of satisfying and dedicated musicians - and after various recordings and many live concerts with bands such as Aura Noir and Limbonic Art - a new and better line-up was achieved in the summer of 2000.

Only three months later, the band entered Soundzone Studio to record a four track long self financed mini-cd, entitled "The Human Spirit Massacre".

The band felt it was time to get rid of the name Gothic Domain, since it really did not reflect the aggressive style of the music. A new moniker was found: Usipian. The first concert under this name was in support of Vader.

After the unleash of "The Human Spirit Massacre" in late 2001 - a release that has recieved good reviews worldwide - Usipian once again changed its line-up, which ended up consisting of the following members: Toke Eld (vocals) - Tais Pedersen (guitar) - Jeppe Hasseriis (guitar) - Nis Rode Larsen (drums) - Martin Rosendahl (bass).

In August 2003 the band recorded two tracks ("Clouded Restrainment" and "Shadows of the Once Unseen") to be used for promotional purposes. Shortly after in November 2003 bass-player Kent Værens (formerly in Ad Noctum) was added to the line-up as a replacement for Martin Rosendahl.
The feedback on the promotional recording was very good, and due to great public interest the recording was released in April 2004 as a limited edition 7-inch EP entitled "Clouded Restrainment" on Metal Fortress Entertainment.

In August and September 2004, Usipian entered Starstruck Studio - along with producer Anders Lundemark - to record a debut full-length. Shortly after finishing the recording, Usipian signed a deal with Metal Fortress Entertainment. The album - entitled "Dead Corner of the Eye" (CD/LP) - consists of 11 tracks, has a total playing time of 48:39 and the cover is painted by legendary artist Dan Seagrave.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Usipian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.