1. Utah is a psychedelic rock/stroner metal/sludge metal band from Athens, Georgia.  They formed in 2009, and released their debut EP, Here They Come, the following year.  In 2013, the band self-released their first full-length, a self-titled album featuring nine songs.  The band's current lineup is:

Wil Smith - Guitars & Vocals
Erik Budde - Bass
Chris Holcombe - Drums
John McNeece - Guitars & Vocals

https://www.facebook.com/utahrock
http://www.myspace.com/utahrock

2.  Utah is an independent band from Århus/Skanderborg, Denmark.

Jesper Both: Vocals and guitars
Søren Zahle: Guitars and backingvocals
Jesper Jacobsen: Keys and sounds
Tomas Alstrup: Bass
Anders Rønne: Drums

UTAH has given many concerts have achieved a very strong and personal expression, which makes an impression on everyone who listens to them. UTAH was one of the really big surprises in Live Contest 2003 (Livecontest.dk is the biggest Danish music competition aiming at upcoming bands). The band won the audience award, and they were hired to play Roskilde Festival that year, a concert that gained them many new followers.

2004 UTAH played numerous concerts all across Denmark, including SPOT10 (Scandinavians most prominent music industry festival), which among other things landed them a deal with one of the largest Danish booking agencies. They also received massive airplay on the national Danish radio P3 with the song “Crash~Burn “.

May 2005 the band embarked on a US-tour which brought them to Chicago, Indianapolis, Grand Rapids, Toledo, Cleveland and finally New York. The American audience and press embraced the music right from the start. UTAH is also doing extremely well at the American site for upcoming bands Garageband.com
In June 2005 UTAH released their new EP entitled “Break the mould “, and it received excellent reviews in the Danish press. The release was followed by an inspiring concert at SPOT11, a concert that was regarded as one of the absolute highlights at the festival.

2006 turned out to be the year where UTAH signed a record deal with the acclaimed Danish label
Playground Music, joining such fine acts as Franz Ferdinand, Artic Monkeys, The White Stripes and many more. Consequently the band spent most of the year in their recording studio having no time for concerts, except one successful appearance at the German festival Haldern-pop.
Also in November 2006 UTAH’s song “Crash-Burn” appeared on the Warner Brothers hit show      “One Tree Hill”.

In February 2007 the bands debut album “strength in numbers” was released to fantastic reviews in Denmark. The release is being followed by a major tour in Denmark and at the moment UTAH is working on a record deal with the indie label approachingstormrecords. 


3 . Utah is a slowcore band from Troy, New York.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Utah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.