Uthovar was initially a  collaboration project between Siniša Dukarić and Josip Zupčić. It grew to a full blown band since 2003.

Band members

- Josip Zupčić is a guitar player and drummer who played  in "Oprosti", "Yanez", "Alzheimer" and "Avathar". His style ranges from ethno folk rhythms to the riff and rhythms influenced by Slayer, Death, Pantera and other notable bands in alternative metal genres.

- Siniša Dukarić is a song-writer, guitar player and sometimes sparing drummer for Josip Zupčić. Most of his songs are being written in Croatian language with a very strong influence of folk, traditional ways of writing lyrics and performing these songs.
Guitar playing style in most of his songs is based on very simple and light eastern patterns which are usually following the melody of his singing. Although not technically acceptable, most of the melodies are defined with his own touch of personality and recognizable style which nowadays defines Uthovar itself.

- Martin Odrljin - Zdrlja is a bass player who previously played in Portman and in year 2009 he joined Uthovar after session bass player, Siniša Lolić, departed to play bass in loš primjer.

- Ivan Kukuljević  is band's  drummer borrowed from Portman.

Timeline 

2003 - During this year most of the acoustic versions of the songs were written and arranged by Sinisa Dukaric, most notably "Mirna" and "Scream Bitch".

2004 - "Krvava dijeva" - acoustic version is being written and recorded by Sinisa on notebook, therefore  quality of that recording stays the same until this day. "Prepiranje" acoustic instrumental version is being written as well.

2005 - Sinisa & Josip are starting to talk about this ideas with merging their creativity together in order to get the most out of all that material being written from both of them. Occasional jams are taking place mostly in Sinisa's room in Fericanci (Croatia) and most of these jams were recorded in various quality and to this day they remain valuable material for pulling out pieces and combining them into other songs.
Some of the songs are written in this year: "Barbara" - gift song to one of the best friends of the band, Sinisa Lolic, "Dve muve na krpi" - first metal-only song written by Sinisa Dukaric, guitars arranged by Sinisa Lolic and, drumset section performed by Josip. 


2006 - Josip writes and arranges couple of his songs which still don't have names, but most notably this is the year when some of the old Josip songs are being performed again by Uthovar and recorded live in Fericanci. Some of the songs are "Kurva", "Eyesaw", "Nameless", "Nek se cijedi" etc...
Sinisa continues to write new songs, this process ends up with couple of new acoustic and acapella songs like: "Krvave ruke", "Moja draga", "Poraz",    
Band performed some of these songs (unplugged) only once live in public in one small alternative bar in Fericanci, Sfera.

Throughout the whole year there are rare rehearsals due to Sinisa's work in Austria and Josip's move to Zagreb. Yet, every chance to jam or practice is being used to the maximum.

2007 - To raise the level of the quality and improve that whole sound picture, Uthovar is now in the process of looking for a drummer and making all of their recordings in some DIY studio in order to release an demo album.

2008 - Band found a new drummer (actually shared drummer from Portman) Kuks and during the whole year managed to play at two shows and most recently bass player joined Uthovar, Zdrlja, which makes year 2008 most active so far.
Now complete band started working on new materials and re-arranging older songs for 4 man band. 

2009 - Band is now complete, DEMO recording is arranged slowly and band will finnaly leave its city limits and hit local bars, other cities and place throughout the summer.

Some of their stuff can be found at their myspace profile:

http://www.myspace.com/uthovaravathar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Uthovar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.