Utopia Banished is a melodic death metal band from New York, US.

Utopia Banished was formed in February of 1998 by Danny Augugliaro and Dave Roberts. They had met drummer Nick Tumia through a mutual friend, and later acquired Marvin Silva. For about one year the 4 played cover songs and later decided to get serious and started writing original songs. The first show played was an instrumental set at a High School Talent Show. Performing their songs Bloody Mary and Apocalyptica. Though they weren't the most original names, the songs created a very positive response from the audience. Shortly thereafter the band auditioned Jeff Hayward for vocals.
It was with this line-up that the band began writing more songs, and began performing shows. Frequenting at local clubs like Traditions (Ridgewood, Queens) and Voodoo Lounge (Bayside, Queens). In mid 1999, the band and Jeff H. decided to part ways due to creative differences.

In addition to Jeff leaving the band, Danny (who played guitars at the time) had began going to school in Boston, Ma. With only one guitarist at hand and no vocalist, the group began searching for members to fill the hole. Through these auditions, the group found guitarist, Ian Scott. With a rather quick decision, the band decided to take Ian on as lead guitarist.

When Danny came back, he took the position of vocals and keyboards. Since this time, the band has recorded 3 demos and 1 full length. Through trading and handing out cds, demos, and flyers, the band started getting recognized in the local underground. With one thing in mind, and that is to make a mark in the metal scene, Utopia Banished will not stop until they see that that is done.

In November of 2006, Dave Roberts relocated out of New York.  He was replaced by Brett Grimm, a veteran of the New York Metal scene.  The band has been pushing onward since then, releasing the "Guardian Wolves" EP in late 2008, which was self-produced by the band, recorded and engineered by Brett Grimm.  Look forward to the new album, "The Summoning", which is due to be released in the near future.  


LINE-UP
Danny Augugliaro- vocals/keyboard
Marvin Silva- guitar
Ian Scott- guitar
Brett Grimm- bass/backing vocals
Nick Tumia- drums

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Utopia+Banished">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.