There are two bands under the name Utumno (which was the name of Morgoth's first stronghold in J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle Earth mythos):


1) Utumno was a  death metal band which was formed in Västerås, Sweden in 1990 by Jonas Stålhammar on vocals (who was playing at that time also in God Macabre, and ex-Abhoth). Utumno recorded 2 demo's ("Desolation Domain" and "Twisted Emptiness", both in 1990). The second demo led to a record deal with the just activated Dutch Record label Cenotaph Records. The first release was the "The Light of Day" 7" e.p. The e.p. was recorded at Studio Sunlight, engineerded by Tomas Skogsberg and produced by Utumno during some days in December 1991. The second pressing of the e.p featured coverart by the, back then in the underground, famous Danish artist Paw Nielsen. In 1993, Utumno recorded their 6 track mini cd Across the Horizon at Sunlight Studio with again Tomas Skogsberg. The mini cd had one of the most beautifull, and most obscure, cover artwork by famous Kristian Wåhlin. Just after the release of the mini cd Cenotaph Records got in heavy problems and went bankrupt. Sadly this led to the end of this promising Swedish death metal act who incoprerated way more variation and diverse elements in their songs then the average Swedish death metal band did in the early 90's. Drummer Johan Hallberg joined Cranium in the end of the 90's and released 2 albums with them. Jonas Stålhammar formed Bombs of Hades in 2002, who have legendary Magnus Forsberg on drums (from the real, and one and only Svenska Tribulation). He also joined The Crown as their new vocalist in 2009.
Vic records (www.vicrecords.com) re-issued the mini cd with the ep in 2010. The album is remastered by Mike wead (King Diamond / Bibleblack).

2) Utumno was a Norwegian Black Metal band that changed their name to Emancer.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Utumno">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.