Musical project, under jurisdiction of 'Hram Plamena'. Elevate and honor the greatness and inconceivability of The Nameless Beauty that forever remain intact and unseen. Utvar represents a vibrational filter through which the glimpses of the touch of The Nameless Beauty may took form. Although the forms of the touch appears like a sound, they are in fact only the far echo, an illusion of the movement. These sound illusions may serve their purpose only when they are used in the right and meaningful way. The progress of forming better and better filters for the sake of the above mentioned goal, has been set in motion, and there is always a new tool to be used, a new path to be taken. Musical project Utvar will go even deeper in self-discovery and devotion to that which is not to be spoken - because the words will make it dissapear..

What Sifr did on 'Valcer Tisine i Njene Senke' album, was to put an end to one era of creation in order to enter a new one. It is this new era of creation that can not be discribed so easy. It will go even deeper in self-discovery and devotion to that which is not to be spoken - because the words will make it dissapear.

Brief history of Utvar:
Closely connected to Plamen Večne Zime (The Flame Of Eternal Winter) now Plamen Večnosti (The Flame Of Eternity), Utvar is another music project of Sifr (Slavnik). Utvar means Wraith in English. The question of Utvar's music is complexed (as it was in Plamen Večne Zime), so this project can be called Black Metal, but it would miss a point. It is best to describe Utvar's music as a combination of Black Metal and folk/orthodox type of clean vocals. All together makes a wonderful mix. Lyric theme is about feelings, emotional complicity and nature, in general. Slavnik tried to make a step away from Plamen Večne Zime, and create something that is much heavier and atmospheric.
The first song was made in winter 2011, and it is called "Senka Na Snegu" (Shadow On The Snow). The album that Utvar is planning to create will be called "Valcer Tisine i Njene Senke" (Waltz of Silence and it's Shadow), but it is still under process of creating.

In the year 2013. the first album was done.  "Valcer Tisine i Njene Senke" (Waltz of Silence and it's Shadow), took three years to record, and was done at Svesmrt Studio in Zrenjanin, Serbia.
In this case, words would not be enough to explain the idea from which Utvar, as a music project, come into being. 

Year 2015. bought one EP and the Second Studio Album into the light. The EP is named 'Bespuća' (Pathlessness), and the album's name is 'Matr'. 
Matr is The Secondborn of the Inspirational Vortex and it has been done in period of 2013/2015. There is a lot of happening around the album, but the inspirational source kept its cold water, which means that the powerful urge to create had not ceased. The manifestation of this creation is a deed that could not be possible without the depths of The Nameless Beauty in which honor this tiny peace of (I even dear to call it) art has been formed. To dive into the sounds recorded on this manifestation is to dive within oneself, and with the very light that could be borrowed just for a short amount of time, there is a impossible possibility to light up that which could not be lighted up. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Utvar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.