UUVVWWZ (read double U double V double W Z) is a four person band from Lincoln, NE. Members include Jim Schroeder (guitar), Teal Gardner (voice), Tom Ambroz (drums), and Dustin Wilbourn (bass).

"UUVVWWZ started as a band in 2007 in Lincoln, Nebraska. When we came up with the name we laughed. I wrote it on a ripped up brown paper bag that we had drawn some of our song structures on and pronounced while pointing, “Double ‘U’ double ‘V’ double ‘W’… ‘Z.’” Then we went back to working on our songs and being creative together with a good chance of pasta and cigarette breaks.

In that year we wrote 9 songs and decided to record them before Teal left town for school. We talked about following her in the summer and getting a place to eat and drink and make music, but she decided to stay in Lincoln and so it went: Recording, Pressing, and a Tour.

We left in our tour mate Darren’s mom’s minivan and headed east and then down the coast towards shows and beaches, keenly following an abstract dream.

People compared us to musicians and bands we had to look up (Dog Faced Hermans, Lydia Lunch, The Pop Group) and some that were familiar (Deerhoof, Captain Beefheart, Bow Wow Wow), they dubbed us Avant-Rock and Blues. One man unintentionally called us Power-Jazz after we interrupted his silent contemplation outside of a coffee shop, but that’s a different story… that starts like this:

After our tour of the East Coast we planned another just for Lincoln. On July 25, 2008 we played 5 shows in one day at the aforementioned coffee shop, a house, a street corner, a venue, and a Marquee overlooking “O” St. that runs straight through downtown Lincoln. We made tour shirts and drove a total of 15 blocks as we performed for a couple hundred people throughout the day.

Since then Teal, Tom, Dustin and I have been playing shows in Nebraska, deliberately writing and composing (songs and bios), and anticipating tours. Pursuing our creative dreams as a unit."

- Jim  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/UUVVWWZ">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.