The band Vaalturion started in the town Tidan in Sweden. With the guitarist Pontus Simosson, bassplayer Gustaf Hermansson, drummer Joakim Loi and Anders Persson on vocals.
Pontus and Gustaf had played in the same skatepunkband Blue Infernal, but where out to play Thrash. They knew the drummer Joakim and they started the project with Anders on vocals. They wrote the songs They will pay, mouth bleed, Crawling down my spine and Scracthing.
After some months the band got a gig. A couple of weeks after the Gig, Anders and Pontus got in a fight, when Anderss said he wanted to make-out with Pontus while he was drunk.
Anders got kicked out from the band and the band had no vocals for a while. 

Then the leadsinger Anton Stenander joined the band. Instead of singing the vocals, he started growling. The band liked the sound of the thrashmetal combined with Antons growl so they made the riffs more like death metal. Anton wrote the texts to Scraching, they will pay and mouth bleed. The song Crawling down my spine was a lyric that was writhen before.

Now when the band got their Leadsinger, it all went on. They played for about a half a year, when they tought it would be better with a second guitarist. The answer was Pontus brother. Linus Simonsson. The band members now where: Pontus and Linus Simosson, Gustaf Hermansson, Anton Stenander and Joakim Loi. After some time, the band started to think that Joakim did'nt fit in, did'nt do enough work to make the band come ahead, so he was out and a drummer named Mikael Blomqvist took his place . He played the songs with blastbeats that made the songs more death metal.

Now after some time the band had a gig at Igelstorp. The public did not respond with the band so the gig did'nt go any well. But still the band where out to get somewhere, and they recorded a demo. The demo was named Buried alive with maggots, and the band are now out for gigs around sweden. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vaalturion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.