VadimVon is an American-based project originally created by Ikon V in 2004 as an artistic and creative outlet for uncompromising, fierce, infernal metal. The content of VadimVon is deeply rooted in doomsday prophecies of cosmic destruction, ancient demonology, and the dark powers which exist outside of this Universe, awaiting to invade this cosmic shell and bring forth the reign of the Ancient Primordial Khaos. An EP titled "Abyssus Diabolorum" was recorded in late 2006 and released in May of 2007 as a limited-edition printing through Eradication Process, an underground label based in the UK. Composing new material, creating artwork for Morbid Angel, and gaining heavy airplay on radioshows such as the Australian Solarfall Radio, Evolgrinder's World Destroyers, and UK's Ragnarok Radio throughout the spring, summer, and fall of 2007, VadimVon had seized its existence as a one-man metal entity and formed itself into a performing lineup. Sado-Golem, Ikon V's partner in crime, joined in as a full-time member of the band. While taking on an intensive rehearsal schedule with stand-in live musicians as well as an extensive pallette of digital madness, VadimVon was yet able to complete the production of an entire full-length album. "RiseKhaosInfernal" is a ravenous, blistering, frightening, uncompromising slab of dark khaotic energy, reaching inhuman speeds of 320bpm, awaiting to deliver a crushing blow to the eyes and ears of the worldwide extreme metal community. The album was produced and engineered by Ikon V and Sado-Golem. Soon after the completion of the album Red Magus (bass) joined as full-time member. Album sales began. Digital sales took off throughout the world, resulting in an impressive amount for such a new release. The CD copies of the album are being shipped out on a daily basis. The name of VadimVon has started to gain serious momentum, like a black hole. In April of 2008, after an extensive visit to Tampa, Ikon V was selected as the finalist from the entire North and South American continent to fill the live guitarist spot in Morbid Angel, the true icon of American death metal. Due to last minute life circumstances the spot was filled by another high-profile shredder. VadimVon is the opening act for the upcoming Morbid Angel tour across the US for their upcoming album. Ikon V and his graphic company KhaosART are responsible for all of the artwork and design on www.MorbidAngel.com , as well as the band's merchandise. His latest piece "Garuda" was first unveiled during the recent MA Euro tour and was reported as being one of the most successful Morbid Angel designs of all time.

VadimVon is not a typical "band", but the voice of an underground sect, a device which unlocks a door into the dark netherworld, into the deepest realm of the tortured human soul. There are no gimmicks or pretentions - we await and welcome the impending outer-cosmic demise which awaits this Earth and the pathetic spindle which it clings onto. We are the prophets of doom. We are the pessimists and the blasphemers of the weak religious foundation built and formed by centuries of human lies. We do not recognize guilt-based emotional masochism or the concept of some eternal "afterlife". We are the undesired. We are Harbingers of the Apocalypse. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/VadimVon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.