Vaginator is a thrash metal band from Santiago, Chile.

Vaginator is formed in May 2008, in Santiago de Chile, being founded by Juano Léniz (Main vocals, Guitar) who, after a couple of change of line-up in the band members, is the only original member of the band. Vaginator’s first formation includes Juano along with Antonio Córdova (Drums) and Ernesto ‘Harry’ Aguirre (Bass). The last one lasted just a few weeks because of his lack of ability to play technical songs. This left Vaginator with only two members for many months. With this formation, the first demo is recorded in November of the same year, “Demo-lición”. This demo had a great acceptation between the Santiago metal scene. In May 2009, Diego Garcés comes to be part of the band as the bassist, and in July of the same year, Vaginator performs for the first time in the Crossover Fest in Santiago, having a great reception from the crowd, making this the start of a series of gigs inside of the Crossover/Thrash Metal scene in Santiago. In September, 2009, a new demo is recorded, “Vaginadictos” which didn’t have the same success as the previous one.
At the end of 2009 Juano is the only remaining member: Diego and Antonio had to leave because of different issues. In February and Mayo 2010, Angelo Rubio (Drums and Backing Vocals) and Gabriel Valenzuela (Bass and Backing Vocals), respectively, get in the band. This gave the chance to release the first full-length album by Vaginator. In November 19th, 2010, Vaginator opens the show for Violator in Chile along with Disaster and Dekapited. The band signed with the producer of the show, although it brought some criticism saying that the band wasn’t ready for that kind of shows.
In December 11th, 2010, along with Massakre, Nuclear and Squad, the first album by Vaginator is released, “Thrash & Roll… a tu culo!” (Thrash & roll… up your ass!), consisting on 8 tracks.
In January 2011, the band had it first tour along with Bulk and Deep Obsession, named “Esmegma Fest”. It consisted on dates in Santiago, Talca and Concepción, Chile.

http://www.myspace.com/masacrevaginator <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vaginator">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.