Vai Ficar Preto is a Croatian grind/death/core band formed in 2004 by Igor Tomašic (drums) and Matija Poklar (guitar and vocals). At the beginning Robert Kokanovic (bass guitar) joined them but he was soon replaced by Hrvoje Lonjak, and since then they are still playing in the same composition. Music of this band is inspired by the music of icons like “The Exploited”, ”Ratos De Porao”, “Sepultura”, “Napalm Death”, and “Slayer”, although they like to say that they are there own greatest role model and this is why they play exclusively there own songs. Like the rest of the music of this type, main characteristics are brutal vocals, and aggressive guitars and drums, but what separates this band from the rest is neurotics and psychotics of their music. Lyrics of Vai Ficar Preto’s songs cover social thematic, using which this band is trying to express their points of view and bring themselves closer to their audience. In the past 4 years, Vai Ficar Preto has preformed on numerous festivals and concerts together with various local as well as foreign bands. Ones that should be specially mentioned are concert from 2005, held in Osijek with Zagreb’s band “Lasting Values“, festival “Živjeti kvalitetnije” held in Požega on June 23, 2006 where they preformed with a band from Czech Republic “Malignant Tumour“ and Pula's “Nulla Osta“. During the same year, in the town of Gradište, they held a concert with “Misery Index“ from USA. When it comes to discography Vai Ficar Preto has made 2 demo CD's up till now, both recorded at the “Depth” studio in Požega. First CD named “hate” has been recorded in December 2006 and consists of 6 songs. All the music and lyrics on album have been written by the band members. Second album, “we all die” has been recorded during the middle of 2007 and has 5 new songs. Thematically this album follows the first one, and stays faithful to intense sounds of guitar and sharp vocals. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vai+Ficar+Preto">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.