Valentino Khan is a music producer & DJ from Los Angeles, CA.

Valentino Khan makes everything. From hip hop club anthems to dance music hits, Valentino's production knows no bounds.  He has produced hip hop for multi-platinum and Grammy award-winning artists such as B.o.B., T.I., Bruno Mars, 2 Chainz, Iggy Azalea, Tyga and Kid Sister. 

In the summer of 2014, Valentino signed to Skrillex's OWSLA imprint for his dance music releases and released his debut EP "In Khan We Trust."  Khan also has had official releases on Mad Decent, Dim Mak Records, Columbia, Interscope, Warner Music, Ultra Records, and Slow Roast.

Valentino has shown a unique versatility in dance music -- progressive house, techno, electro, hardstyle, trap, and more.  Because of this, his work has garnered the loud support of some of the biggest names in EDM including the likes of Skrillex, Diplo, Boys Noize, Steve Aoki, Dillon Francis, Kill The Noise, Knife Party and many more.

He has established himself as one of the most in-demand remixers, with official remixes for artists such as Wiz Khalifa, M.I.A., The Bloody Beetroots, Paul McCartney, Benny Benassi, Skylar Grey, Kreayshawn, Congorock, Sean Paul, DJ Craze, and Bro Safari.

His music has received support from Diplo, Steve Aoki, Dillon Francis, Flux Pavillion, Toddla T, Bart B More, Will Bailey, Nadastrom, AC Slater, DJ Craze, Munchi, Alvin Risk, Torro Torro and many more.

2013 proved to be a big year for Valentino, both as a producer and a DJ.  In the summer, Valentino and Diplo co-produced the smash single "Bubble Butt" for Major Lazer, which was a staple for radio, clubs, and festivals across the world.  Additionally, in conjunction with his own headlining shows, Valentino spent 2013 touring as support for Skrillex, Zedd, and the Bloody Beetroots.

Khan now looks to continue his success in both the dance music and production worlds. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Valentino+Khan">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.