Valence refers to a number of groups. 

1. Valence is a four piece band from NY that exists to rock hard, open minds, and push the boundaries of contemporary Instrumental Progressive Rock. 
The name Valence comes refers to the bonding power of an atom in chemistry. As a band, Valence similarly “fuses metal, jam, classical and jazz in a very sophisticated progressive style,” -Prog Metal Zone, which creates an eclectic yet cohesive sound palette, transporting the listener to a new state of mind.
Valence recently released their debut effort, “Sleepwalker”, a 34 minute long epic comprising eight sections. The song-suite follows the contours of a dream, one so vivid it blurs the line between dream and reality. It's a journey through the subconscious, where myth meets memory and death is followed by rebirth. Catherine Chabert's artwork tells the story better than any words could.
Members of the band rented a house together in 2011 for the purpose of tracking the album. After overcoming many obstacles that come with self-producing a record (burnt out equipment, angry rabid landlords, 90+ degree heat with no AC, etc.) and with the great help of audio engineer Paul Fakatselis, the band began recording that summer.
In the end, nothing would deter Valence from completing this ambitious undertaking, and as Sea of Tranquility writes, “their hard work paid off, as Sleepwalker is certainly impressive.” The initial response has been overwhelmingly positive: Prog Archives states “they manage to introduce spirit and dynamism beyond re-producing already known song patterns,” and back in July, the track "Winds of Zephyr" reached #1 on OurStage's instrumental charts. The band currently has shows lined up in the greater New York City area and are now booking for the spring and summer in the New York/Tri-State and Boston markets.

Mike Buonanno: Guitar
Geoffrey Schaefer: Guitar
Ian Morris: Bass
Chris Romano: Drumset 

2. American act Valence is the musical union of N2 Itinitl and Sasha Feline, well known for their works with Gnomonclast and Luftwaffe. " Allogene" is Neofolk at it’s best. The instrumental basis of the rough songs is laid by drums, acoustic guitar, accordeon and a virtuos flute. Only now and then orchestral samples are used to complete the overall impression. Although the influence of Current 93 can not be denied, Valence have their own identity and remain fresh throughout the whole album, using powerful drumming which contrasts with the melancholic and fragile melodies. "Allogene" is a rough and unpolished diamond of original and passionate Neofolk appealing to fans of In Gowan Ring, Birch Book and Current 93. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Valence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.