It's been since 1994 that VALIANCE (formerly founded and known with monicker TIXOTROPIA) rumble along the stages of Italy, their home country, gathering great feedback and criticisms from the audience and specialized press. They first entered the studio in 1996 to record the demo-tape Killing the pigs killer (TOP-DEMO on Italian mag METAL SHOCK) releasing 5 tracks directly inspired by NWOBHM. Line-up changes didn't stop the race of the band which gave birth to Time Enchanter demo-cd In 1999, being announced by a 2-tracks promo titled Beyond the line one year before, to give to the metal press a little taste of the natural evolution of their sound. Time Enchanter brought to the band an incredibile number of enthusiastic criticisms all over the world every magazines, fanzines and metal guys seemed to enjoy very much the progressive and symphonic influences included into the sound of the band, questing for a personal style, melting aggressive metal attitude and orchestral passages! All this success led the band to the attention of BLACK LOTUS RECS. Which offered them a deal, very soon signed. The year 2000 signed the release of VALIANCE's debut album The Unglorious Conspiracy. A brand-new chapter of their sound evolution has been written in the 2002!!! WAYFARING, their 2nd full-lenght album is a concetration of a killer sound (dare to take a listen to the wall of 7-strings guitars) aggressiveness and melody, shattering the cliché of power metal!!!! Recorded at ZAPPING SOUND STUDIO, the band obtained a fat, monstrous production, letting the listeners enjoy so much every single note! The Japanese version includes an incredibile, bombastic cover version of The crown and the ring from MANOWAR!!! To promote the album the band scheduled an intense live gigs activity, headlining a great number of dates and being chosen to play as support act of most famous Italian Metal bands such as White skull, Vision Divine and Labyrinth! And now THEY'RE BACK!!! A couple of brand new killer songs written by the 6 piece signs a definitive step forward to the musical growth! Stay tuned for FEED MY RAGE!!! Which step will be made in the future by the band? Wherever their musical growth will lead them, you can count on this: IT WAS IS AND WILL EVER BE HEART-INSPIRED METAL MUSIC!!!!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Valiance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.