VALKYRIE'S CRY
                     www.valkyriescry.com

               Justin Godin - Guitars, Music & Lyrics
                       Dental Dave - Bass
                        Kramer K. - Drums
                     Dip H. Monowar - Vocals

In a time where metal is scarce and seems to be turning into something else with nu-metal and the latest trends. Valkyrie's Cry brings to the world pure metal. They are the Brutal Medieval violent answer to nu-metal. With strong clear vocal melodies, blazing guitar riffs, melodies and solos, and a thunderous bassist and drummer.

Fire was left burning from the Gates of Valhalla, where two mighty warriors Lord Godin and Dip Evil rode to this earth on mighty horses, to forge Metal. Lord Godin "Justin Godin" played guitar many years, making him a mighty Axeman, technically, as well as studying classical theory, and currently teaches. Dip Evil "Dip Monowar" is a strong powerful force on vocals, having done some opera training makes his presence known, also influenced by Dio and Bruce Dickinson. After some time thru "Casa Basilica" a short lived metal band, where Dip Evil and Lord Godin met. Things fell apart after a year. Lord Godin and Dip Evil each went on their own way.

After some time Dip Evil sought for answers with his evil oracles, where to find some steel to forge, and pure metal. So Dip Evil contacted Lord Godin while he was already working on some Metal. They continued their quest spawning forth a band named "Dragon Slayer". They met Bassist Darryl who proved he was a worthy warlord, just after he left Zaa another hard rock band from Toronto. Dragon Slayer worked a demo and played various shows around the Toronto area with local acts like Anvil. Although due to other irresponsible and unprofessional musicians Dragon Slayer needed to make some changes, the other guitar player Tim left, and the Drummer was disbanded. Heavily wounded, Dip and Godin would continue with Darryl, but under a different moniker.

So "Valkyrie's Cry" was born. No Compromises. Valkyrie's are the choosers of the slain in Norse Mythology, and the true warriors who dies in battle would receive a Valkyrie to take them to Valhalla, and in this band are Warriors who will fight till the death, for metal.

Valkyrie's Cry is not the nice happy type power metal; they are the Brutal Medieval violent answer to Nu-metal. With songs about Legends, Warriors, Myths and stories from the medieval and dark ages. With a high level of musicianship on every level, awesome vocal range, hymn like choruses, guitar riffs more powerful than a mace and shredding faster than any warhorse could fly, along with awesome bass playing that grim reaper himself would tremble to, and drumming powerful and fast like the sounds of an army charging on the battlefield.

Prepare yourselves; strap on your chain maille, Valkyrie's Cry just finished the first self titled EP. Heaviness, power, speed, no specific genre encompasses it all. One listen will give you a dose of the fury and passion which is Valkyrie's Cry. With a steady cult following in Canada, Valkyrie's Cry has also teamed up with Dragonight Agency to help promote in Europe. Plans for a full album follow in the future. With raw energy and a warrior's attitude, this powerful ensemble will not tame their horses nor kneel to anyone, but continue to forge their own brand of Metal from the Dark ages. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Valkyrie%27s+Cry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.