2010 ::: Let there be 'SWORD' ::: New Album, New Website, ValSans on Facebook
2010 started glorious: In January we were booked as support of German Metal Legend 'U.D.O.' (EX-Accept) at the Planet Music (Szene) in Vienna – an unforgettable evening! We also managed to present some of our new Merchandising you can look at in the Merchandising Section of our Homepage! On April, 17th 2010 'Sword' was released in form of a great Releaseparty at the Mad Stage in Mödling!
 
2009 ::: Blood, Sweat and 'Sword'
2009 was the year of the 'Sword'. The recording process for our new album finally started. We played until our fingers bled and so ValSans succeeded at last and could hand over the material to 'Hinterhof Studios' where it was mixed and mastered. In 2009 we also had the great idea to produce the great music clip for our song 'Eyes of a Viper'. Our friend Peter Berto and his 'e-motions video produktion' made it possible and so you can watch the video on our homepage. Despite of all these abilities we didn’t have the chance to play live too often but we still remember the great gig at the MC Wild Eagles Biker Meeting 2009.
 
2008 ::: Open Air Season and Pre-Production
In the year 2008 we started the big project 'Sword'. There were many things to think about: A tight name, the fitting artwork and we had to check the order of the songs appearing. Our photograph Rüdiger Weghaupt took the pictures for the Album – Cover and Inlay and also put us in scene for the band member photographs. And don’t forget the detailed Pre-Production so we were able to even improve our material. Next to working in the studio we earned a lot of live experience this year: 3 Open Airs in Austria and a Support Slot for the upcoming Metal Stars 'Sabaton'. At last we also worked on our Sideproject 'Ostbahn Selbsthilfe Gruppe', a band, where we present Rock/Blues Classics in Austrian dialect.
 
2007 ::: Nocturnal Rites and the „The Hall of Fame'
While preparing the songs our very first full-length album we attended the Wacken:Open:Air – Metal Battle. We won the preliminary round but we had to play a ballad in the next round in two weeks. Those among you who knows us can imagine that this was an almost a mission impossible for a metal band like us… Anyway, we tried hard and succeded with 'The Hall of Fame' and in the end we even reached the semi-final round! Once again we decided to play a gig for a good cause. This year we performed a charity show for the Kolpinghaus in Baden which was a great success. Unfortunately, our ValSans-Brother Chris left the band in Summer. After a long manhunt for a new bass player Tom Kleinander joined ValSans. Only some month later we performed a full setlist at the Mad Stage, Moedling with 'Maiden für Jeden' amazingly. We still do not have a clue how TJ did accomplish but it was great. This years highlight was the Gig at the Viper Room, Vienna. Just 3 hours before the show featuring 'Nocturnal Rites' and 'Thunderstone' would start we received a call. The show manger asked us to do the local support slot of the show! That was unbelieable! As fast as lightning we jumped in our cars and pedal to the metal! However, the icing of the cake was in Slovakia. Our Metal-Brothers Vindex invited us to do the legendary 'Metal Storm IV' show at the Randal Club, Bratislava. There was also a very impressive cover band called Satriani Revival – great stuff. We still remember lots of excited fans during our performce who finally bought all our remaining EPs 'Dawn of Metal' - Slovakia rocks!
 
2006 ::: ValFans don’t fear neither sweat nor scrap
2006 started with the one and only secret ValSans gig ever at Stu's 3-day party. After performing all ValSans songs and also some covers we had a great time and took this opportunity to have some… or some more beers with all our ValFans. Besides a home run at the Ebenfurth city hall we performed a gig for the good cause. We joined the charity show „Raise your fist against cancer' in Linz together with 'Dr. Rock' and our Metal-Brothers 'BloodStained'. As a tribute to the 80ies we did a cover of 'Medieval Steel' to honor the same named band. In Summer we played at the 'Rock on the Scrap' Open Air Festival with an audience of more than 1000 visitors. This event is the biggest in that area, therefore, we were very pleased to be announced as the headline of the festival. Over the years we collected some very nice photos of our fans posing while we are performing on the stage. Therefore, we added a new category on our website’s gallery called 'ValFans'. There you find lots of uncensored photos of our fans and it is still growing! One of our most memorable gigs ever took place at the 'Raven’s Corner', Baden which was also the most sweaty one. Usually you would expect 50 degress Celsius and 99 % in a sauna or a vapor-bath but at that night the totally overcrowded club has become really wet. Since then our guitars show some rust! Last but not least we traveled to Senec, Slovakia where we performed at the 'Heavy Metal Storm III' festival. We met our friends Vindex who made it all happen and did a great gig also featuring 'Baron Blade'. When performing our last song 'Dawn of Metal' suddenly umpteen fans jumped on the stage to sing this song with us together. That was gorgeous!
 
2005 ::: ValSans meets Grave Digger & Iron Savior
2005 should be the most successful year in the history of the band 'ValSans'. Besides the first international support slot for German Metal Legends 'Grave Digger', which will be continued in december supporting 'Iron Savior', ValSans plays their first gig outside Austria on February 25th in Mosonmagyarova (H) – an amazing experience for the band. We would like to thank all the people from Hungary who supported us that great and banged until the end without knowing us before. But also within Austria we travel into unknown territory. Our ValFans followed us Kapfenberg (Styria) and Raabs (Waldviertel). As well our merchandising expanded: So we now offer Buttons and Patches. In Luger Studios we recorded within three days the Covertrack 'Sent by the devil', a track that is featured on Noise Factor’s international release 'Back in time – A tribute to Rage'. Many positive reviews show that Metal isn’t dead in Austria and that Austria’s Metal scene knows what Metal is all about. ValSans are also featured by Austria’s independent Metal zine 'Arising Realm' which releases their headbangin’ track 'Dawn of Metal' on their Promo – CD. The last big projects in 2005 is an exclusive tribute concert in Fischamend, where ValSans perform a half an hour show, covering tracks from the 80ies and, at last, the relaunch of our homepage.
 
2004 ::: The Winner takes it all
2004 starts with an amazing ValSans – Gig at the Planet Music, Vienna, for the first time in front of a real big audience. We were absolutely glad about the positive feedback of our first fans! For a band it is much more fun to play, when the crowd supports you that great! Forced by this success ValSans took part on three Austrian Band Contests. At the 'Ostrocktrophy 2004' a sensation took place: Being the only traditional Metalband in a billing full of hip Alternative Rock and New Metal Bands, ValSans win the pre round and the semifinals, enter the contest – final round and win second prize! As a result of this success ValSans won three days at Luger Studios and an interview at Birgit Denk's show on Radio Orange where you could hear ValSans on air for the first time on July, 22nd 2004. Full of self – confidence the band started many shows – some of them again in Vienna’s biggest venue for metal gigs, the Planet Music. After a lot of hard work ValSans present their first release, the 4-Track album 'Dawn of Metal' at the 'Planet – Future Festival' on October, 21st. The 3rd edition of this EP is nearly sold out today. Besides lots of national orders we are glad and proud to have requests from Germany and Poland, yes, even from Argentina. ValSans also present their first shirt, which of course is sold as a non profit product to our ValFans.
 
2003 ::: Our first live experiences
2003 has been the year of changes for ValSans. Out of the dusty storeroom they move into a 50 squaremeter big 'real' rehearsal room. Totally inspired the members of the band change it into a real 'Hall of Metal' with lots of beer in the refrigerator, wall – decoration and some lights, so the rehearsals nearly became a live event itself. After writing and arranging our own compositions and furthermore one cover version('Never ending story') the band wanted to present their material to the outer world. They were lucky that 'Fortuna’s Favourites', a local Alternative Rock band, was looking for a support act playing at 'Die Insel', a small pub in Eggendorf. Although all the other acts weren’t into metal, so ValSans were the real 'Alternative' this time, the evening becomes a great success for the band. This was the first of many following excellent live experiences. At the same time our homepage http://www.valsans.com has been released.
 
2002 ::: The Dawn of Metal has just begun...
In October 2002 'Meridian' is looking for a new lead singer! Together with Andy B. Barna, a longstanding friend of the band and 'Veteran of Metal', our ideas seemed to become true. After a few rehearsals 'Meridian’s' old music style vanished and became today’s known 'ValSans' – style. Except changing the growling vocals into clean ones, Andy could transfer his fascination for Classic Metal to the band. More and more progressive parts appear at the scene, because 'That’s what we always wanted to do!'. The first song composed in 2002 as 'ValSans' was, what you can already call a VS – Classic, 'Born to see the light'. So the music changed, but also the lyrics of the songs get a new inspiration: The world of Mystical Tales and Fantasy. ValSans write songs about dragon – hunting ('Dragon’s Blood'), warfare ('On the battlefield'), Germanic mythologie ('Mjölnir') or still actual social topics ('Ticket to hell').
 
2001 & before ::: Meridian and Paranorm
Founding the band „Paranorm' in 1996 Chris (vox, git), Tom (git), Wolf (dr) and Klaus (b) set the basement for today’s 'ValSans'. After many years hanging around in smallest rehearsal rooms and playing a few gigs Klaus quit in the year 1999. 'Paranorm' lay on ice until Stu joined in 2001 playing lead guitar and introducing the band to 'classical' and 'progressive' metal influences. Chris now plays the bass, an instrument he became used to and maybe the only thing he has been faithful until today. *gg* The band 'Meridian' was born. Sometimes, on dark, cold november – evening – rehearsals, Chris grabs his guitar and plays the old, unforgotten riffs, the other band members join up and a certain kind of nostalgic flair fulfills the room. Well, the good old times!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ValSans">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.