1. VALTIEL play a sometimes-driving sometimes-venomous style of screamy hardcore/metalcore that wouldn't have been out of place in the late-90s. The band is from Seattle and feature members of Save Bandit, Itemfinder, Counter/Balance, and Ketamine Cat.

https://www.facebook.com/Valtiel-292961131327796/

2. Dreams Fade is a concept that began around 2003 by rapper Archangel and a collection of artists including Valtiel and Broken Silence. Various projects were released but the music remained more of a hobby amongst friends until recent years. In 2007, Valtiel collaborated with Memphis legend Lord Infamous of the multi-platinum rap group Three Six Mafia. By 2009 he worked with former Three Six Mafia member Koopsta Knicca as well as hooking back up with Lord Infamous for a second song. Valtiel has also worked with recently deceased Rhymesayers rapper Eyedea – winner of HBO’s Blaze Battle (2000) and Scribble Jam (1999). He is now set to release “Evil Imagination” – a concept album produced by DJ MysticalOne coming out November/December 2010.

The music of Dreams Fade is often described as “love songs gone wrong” involving themes of pain, relationships, and introspective self truths. Other subjects include spirituality, horror, philosophy, and the occult. Technique and style consists of poetic lyricism accompanied by high-speed melodic flows rapped over dark ambient-industrial beats. The imagery in the music is equally matched and uniquely conveyed by in-house graphic artist and painter Andrei Golubtsov.

Valtiel’s “Evil Imagination” will be the first Dreams Fade release and is a co-venture between Valtiel and producer/composer DJ MysticalOne. A concept album, it acts as a personal narrative of transformation and dark romanticism. Melodic piano compositions and dark ambient soundscapes create a style and atmosphere unique to the world of underground rap. Features include Lord Infamous, Archangel, Taryn Larue, Broken Silence, and Homiebeats. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Valtiel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.