There are multiple artists tracked as "Vampire" on Last.fm;

1) Deep in a musty, age-old cellar of old town Gothenburg, the anonymous members—the quintet has fashioned a particular nom de guerre—of Vampire are plotting something wicked. They’ve been holed up deep underground for over two years. Here, light fails. But the disquieting darkness is right up Vampire’s alley. Frontman Hand of Doom, guitarist Black String and bassist Command are urging relatively new recruits, guitarist Sepulchral Condor and drummer Abysmal Condor, to stay focused on the biennial ritual. As such, Vampire’s founding members have experienced it before. Wait long enough and the abyss will open, the jaws of darkness gaping yet again for the vernal tides.

For neophytes, Vampire’s cob-webbed, moon-burned brand of death metal stems from not just in one circle of Hell but all nine. The Swedes are just as influenced by Mercyful Fate and Slayer as they are informed by Sarcófago and Bathory. Likewise, traces of Autopsy, Master’s Hammer, and, of course, Possessed are evident. But Vampire aren’t an old-school act because revisiting the classics is modish. No, they genuinely feel present-day death metal is lacking spirit, is without presence, and has lost its eccentricity. So, they’ve robbed the aesthetics of Hammer Horror films, absorbed the pneuma their favorite metal bands, imbued it all with nostalgia for mysterious times long past, and have come out on the other side as Vampire. Or, the soundtrack to Castlevania II: Simon’s Quest.

Vampire didn’t form in 1987, however. The Swedes rose from the proverbial grave in 2011 when Hand of Doom, Black String and Command heard a voice in the dark. They quickly put together their self-titled demo, 2012’s Vampire. Immediately hailed by tastemakers—such as Darkthrone’s Fenriz—and fans, who raided 300 copies of the demo in a week, Vampire’s vicious yet evocative style set fire to convention. Buzzed and then signed by Century Media a year later, the Gothenburgers quickly set out to work on their debut.

2) A Spanish trio of Dj's.

3) A Japanese punk band from the early 80s. Split-up. Very little to no information about this band is available online.

4) Czech republic band. The band split-up a few years after releasing their first CD due to disagreements between band members. Over 5000 CDs were sold, considered successful for a new band in their country. Style played is unknown, as is when they were active.

5) German melodic death metal band with thrash influence formed in 1996 who released one demo, Crimson Dominion in 1998. Split-up. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vampire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.