Vampire's Castle are a European Melodic Black Metal band, formed in the gloomy winter of late October, 2010. The original members are Romanian vocalist Lord Leo and Count Garmr on various instruments.

Count Leo composes the lyrics for all of their songs and sometimes instructs musical ideas to Count Garmr. Count Garmr creates the music using a keyboard and mixes the songs. 

After some thinking Lord Leo called upon his friend, Princess Discordia of Bulgaria for an eloquent approach of Gothic Metal, in vein of Nightwish. With that, formed Vampire's Castle.

Vampire's Castle is a very independent band - they do not use studios for recording and pre-program all their songs. The focal point of the band's lyrical themes draw an intriguing symbolist perspective derived from Gothic literature and Romanian legends. 

Most of the composition invested in lyrics come from an angle of other musical inspirations, many of which are featured on their albums.

Early Dimmu Borgir and Theatres des Vampires have a profound impact on Vampire Castle's keyboard and guitar melodies. Lordi and later works of Theatres des Vampires show great influences upon the string sounds conveyed in their music. Nightwish has a large affect on the bands style as well. While not playing any Symphonic music most of the lyrical inputs come from Nightwish. 

Some of the albums planned in the future will feature new contemporary additions to imitate these musical styles.

Currently, Vampire's Castle is working on their EP entitled "Transylvanian Secrets" and has released their full-length album "Installment of the Night". They plan to start recording in August and are working on releasing their second album "Land of the Rocking Vampire's" in that time. 

Vampire's Castle are ready to bring back the old days of Melodic Black Metal. May the Dark Ages return once again!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vampire%27s+Castle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.