Vanderbuyst was a Dutch Hard Rock band formed in 2008 by guitarist Willem Verbuyst (ex-Powervice). He’s joined by Barry van Esbroek on drums and Jochem Jonkman on both bass and lead vocals. Vanderbuyst are a power trio that advocate a mix of 70s/80s Hard Rock, Classic Rock and early NWOBHM. Inspired by bands like UFO, Rainbow, Thin Lizzy,  Deep Purple, Van Halen, and ZZ Top, Vanderbuyst aren’t for you if you’re looking for the latest Nu-Metal and Gothic sounds. However, if you like your Hard Rock old school, Vanderbuyst is all you need.

Vanderbuyst’s first feat of arms was a 3-track EP (“Vanderbuyst”, September 2008), which was praised across The Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. Besides the classic song writing, the EP was also lauded for its authentic sound. That was no surprise because this debut was recorded at the famous VOID-studio in Eindhoven (NL). Pieter G. Kloos (admired for his work with The Devil’s Blood and Motorpsycho) mixed and co-produced the EP in co-operation with producer Selim Lemouchi (Powervice, The Devil’s Blood).

In the Spring of 2010 Vanderbuyst recorded their first full length album. Again they worked with Pieter G. Kloos at the VOID-studio. On this album they continued with the no frills approach used on the EP. This way of working contributed to the much appreciated, and today often missing, ‘straight in your face’ sound. Two of the seven tracks were recorded live at the studio, including a cover of UFO’s masterpiece “Rock Bottom”. The self-titled Vanderbuyst album was released in October 2010 on the German label Ván Records and is available both on vinyl (in black, transparent and purple editions) and CD. As with the EP, this album was acclaimed by the music press and even rewarded with a 9/10 in Europe’s leading rock magazine ‘Rock Hard’.

Meanwhile Vanderbuyst have earned an excellent live reputation. In 2010 this “Dutch Hard Rock Assault” played about 50 shows. In May 2011 they will support the legendary British Heavy Metal band Saxon on the European leg of their world tour. Later this summer Vanderbuyst will also play the Rock Hard festival in Germany, the Slovenian Metal Camp, the Danish Magic Metal Festival, Zwarte Cross in the Netherlands and many more. By the end of the year Vanderbuyst will have played over a 100 gigs. And to keep all those new fans happy,  a studio album is planned for late 2011, which they will record between the long list of Summer festival shows. So if you thought that those good old hard rocking days were over then think again: Vanderbuyst proves that 80s Hard Rock is alive and kicking!

In 2014, it was announced that Vanderbuyst would disband. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vanderbuyst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.