There are 5 Vandals!

1) Vandal is an underground Scottish hip-hop artist. Born Chris Steven in 1993, he started his career in late 2011 amidst local hype. 
He has collaborated with Red Hook Noodles on production and has released  samplings on his SoundCloud ahead of his first full mixtape; 'only the dead have seen the end of war' scheduled for release in Winter of 2012. 

2) Vandal is an RAC band from Russia featuring Kaldrad (Branikald, Raven Dark, Nitberg, Temnozor, Sternatis, Vargleide, woods of fallen, Forest) on vocals and members of Volkoten. Formed in 1997, they recorded three full length albums, two demos and one split album with Die Fünfte Kolonne.


3) There is also a thrash metal band called Vandal from Kumanovo, Macedonia.
[Bojan Stojanovski (Shvaba) - vocal, Damjan Milanovski (Danska) - Guitar, Nenad Veljkovik (Neshe) - Guitar, Goran Mitkovski (Goce) - Bass Guitar, Andrej Micikj (Ankos) - Drums.]
The band Vandal was a hard working band since the start. Due the circumstances, the finance were very low, but with help from friends we’ve achieved alot in a small period. Vandal was strugling to local gigs, until the informal organisation Brigada helped them along their way, and set them up to play on a national level. Vandal is one of the most active and productive bands in the contry. The won on the national festival Rock Fest 2008.

4) Vandal is a breakbeat/electro/techno act from Sheffield, England. A decade of singles and remixes under his belt with support from some of the biggest names in the business. Just release first album 'Tonight We Riot' through LOT49. Also set up his own label called Benefit Recordings.

5) Vandal is also a hip hop singer from Salvador, Brazil. He's considered one of the most active artists in the underground scene in this city. Vandal is known for his live collaborations with Baiana System and Bemba Trio. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vandal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.