VK is an ever changing musical force combining many influences. Always creating original and heartfelt music that defies and bends genres. VK is influenced by 70's/80's new wave and postpunk, postrock, shoegaze, metal, dance, progressive, new age, cabaret, psychedelic, goth and noise music. Thematically vanishing kids comes from the idea of fleeting youth and painting your own picture. Vanishing Kids formed in the summer of 2000 when Nikki Drohomyreky and Jason Hartman discovered an excitement for one another's artistic ideas. They quickly recorded a three song ep in Madison, WI and headed west to Portland, Oregon. VK spent three hardworking years in Portland, playing lots of shows, and self releasing several works including: A 7" record and full length CD, "Rest the Glove that Wears you Down" both recorded @ Jackpot! Studios by Larry Crane (Elliot Smith, Sleater Kinney, Stephen Malkmus, Tape Op Magazine). They also recorded 3 songs that were released as a 12" split record ("invisible home ep") with 'Three Bags Full' on the flipside. VK relocated back to Madison, WI in early '04 and did an east coast tour that summer. In the spring of '05 Failed experiment records released "The Selfish mirror" full length cd. It was produced and recorded by the infamous Martin Atkins (PIL, Killing Joke, Pigface, Ministry) and Steven Seibold (Hate Dept., Damage Manual, Berlin) at the Mattress Factory Studios in Chicago, IL. It is distributed through Ryko, so it's available all over. VK went on 3 tours in '05 covering most states in the country, was included in 4 compilations (one of which was a PIL tribute available through Invisible records) and was featured in several national and international magazines. VK went on a 22 date west coast/ midwest/ southern tour in April/ May '06 and released a split 7" record with "biography of ferns" from Seattle on the flipside through Failed experiment records. Currently VK is finishing up the new full length album due out early '07! Vk has also relocated back to Portland, OR and are reunited with bassist Eric Hold. They are planning extensive west coast touring for '07!

http://www.myspace.com/vanishingkids   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vanishing+Kids">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.