There are several artists that use the name "Vanity."

1. Denise Katrina Matthews (b. January 4, 1959 - d. February 15, 2016), better known as Vanity but sometimes credited as Denise Matthews-Smith or D.D. Winters, was a Canadian-born singer, songwriter, dancer, actress, model, and full-time preacher. She was the lead singer for the Prince-mentored female trio Vanity 6, which recorded the 1982 R&B hit "Nasty Girl."

Matthews formally gave up her stage name "Vanity" and became a born-again Christian in 1994, the year she almost died from the effects of snorting cocaine. According to Matthews, after being rushed to the hospital, doctors said she had three days left to live and she was on life support. She told everyone in interviews that Jesus spoke to her during this time and saved her if she promised to give up her "Vanity" persona. In 1995, Matthews was quoted "When I came to the Lord Jesus Christ, I threw out about 1,000 tapes of mine—every interview, every tape, every video. Everything." 

Sadly, she died on February 15, 2016, from sclerosing encapsulating peritonitis, a rare complication of a peritoneal dialysis, a treatment for patients with severe chronic kidney disease, which Denise suffered due to her previous drug use.

Her Website: http://www.denisematthews.com/

2. Founded in October 2010 and reformed in 2012 after line up changes, South Londoners VANITY (formerly known as ‘Vanity Draws Blood’) have been etching a name for themselves within the UK and European Metal Fraternity. Expressing an amalgamation of brutal breakdowns, haunting soundscapes, and fiercely low-tuned instrumentation, the six-piece, fronted by two vocalists, strive and achieve to create something potently unique. With an unbridled reputation for delivering brooding and submerging atmospheric metal, the Brit metalcorers received notable acclaim for 2014’s debut EP, I Witness, which firmly cemented the band’s impending trajectory. After a period of reflection, the diligent metal crew decided to focus on creating a series of works under the title, Perspective; the first of which was released in 2016 and entitled, Perspective // Dread. The highly regarded EP also contained the single, Anxiety, featuring CJ McMahon of Thy Art Is Murder. The atmospheric metal six-piece are back with the second release in their ‘Perspective’ series: ‘Perspective // Empathy’.
They have shared the stage with bands like Black Tongue, Chelsea Grin, Silent Screams, Dream on Dreamer, Heights, Polar, Dead Harts, Heart of a Coward, Soulfly, Modern Day Babylon and The Algorithm.
Lineup:
Kerrie Alexander - Vocals
Ryan Stevens - Vocals
Charles Jones - Bass
Luke Jervis - Guitar/Vocals
Elliot Ball - Guitar
Elliot Plummer - Drums

Links:
 Bandcamp 
 Official website 
 Youtube 

3. A hardcore punk band from Perth

http://www.facebook.com/home.php?sk=lf#!/vanityhc

4. A Swedish band

http://www.myspace.com/vanityse

5. Italian gothic band 

https://www.facebook.com/VanityDoom

6. An Oi! band. Released a demo in 2013 and the Vain In Life Promo Tape in 2014. Members of Creem and The Rival Mob. Debut LP from the NYC street rock band of Evan Radigan and Colman Durkee. This record follows in the tradition of the genre's great forebearers of melodic, yet dirty and driving rock 'n' roll-inspired oi. FFO: Red Alert, the Templars, and dove-shovin'.

7. A Greek death metal band.

https://www.metal-archives.com/bands/Vanity/16637 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vanity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.