There are multiple artists using this name.

(1) Vanishing Point - Mid 1990's Progressive Melodic Metal from Australia.
(2) Vanishing Point - 1980's Heavy Metal from Japan.
(3) Vanishing Point - Mid 1990's Electronica from Brazil.
(4) Vanishing Point - Mid 1990's Electronica possibly from The US. Possibly the same as the Brazil artist.
(5) Vanishing Point - Early 2000's Electronica possibly from The UK. 
(6) Vanishing Point - Mid 2000's Electronica possibly from The UK.
(7) Vanishing Point - Early 2010's Electronica from Poland.
(8) Vanishing X Point - Straight Edge Hardcore band from Montreal, Canada
---

(1) Vanishing Point - Mid 1990's Progressive Melodic Metal band from Australia. In the style of Dream Theater, Evergrey, and Fates Warning.

The band formed in the early 1990′s with the line up of guitarist Tommy Vucur, drummer Jack Lukic and bassist Joe Del Mastro, from an earlier band called Eye. Vocalist Silvio Massaro and keyboard player Pep Sammartino joined the band in the mid 90′s and the band changed its name to Vanishing Point. Soon after Andrew Whitehead joined as a second guitarist. The band concentrated their efforts on songwriting and recording and their first album. In Thought was recorded in 1996, and released in Europe by German label Angular Records in 1997. The following year it was re-issued in Australia by Melbourne label Metal Warriors. The re-issue featured a bonus track, Inner Peace, which featured new Guitarist Chris Porcianko, who had replaced Andrew Whitehead.

In 1999, the band supported Yngwie Malmsteen before Pep Sammartino amicably left the band to pursue other avenues. He was replaced by Danny Olding. Soon afterward, Vanishing Point headed to Germany for the 2000 Wacken Open Air festival. Later that year the band’s second album Tangled in Dream was released in Australia by Metal Warriors and internationally by Germany’s LMP label. The following eighteen months was a busy period for the band. In late 2001, Vanishing Point returned to Europe for a tour with Gamma Ray and Sonata Arctica, during which Olding provided live keyboards for Gamma Ray. Returning to Australia in 2002, they toured the country with German band Edguy. Olding resigned from Vanishing Point shortly after the tour was completed.

Vanishing Point entered the studio to record their third album in 2003. During this time they made a rare live appearance at the annual and prestigious and now defunct Metal For The Brain festival in Canberra. Leonard Kopilas from Manic Opera briefly joined the band on keyboards. Vanishing Point discontinued their management with Metal Warriors. 

In 2005 the band made another live performance with Nightwish on the Melbourne leg of their Australian tour. Embrace The Silence was released mid-2015 after a very long recording process. It was released internationally by their new label, Germany’s Dockyard 1 and in Australian by the Wollongong-based Riot! label. Late in the year, co-founding member Joe Del Mastro announced his departure from Vanishing Point. After completing a final round of live shows with the band, he was replaced by Steve Cox from Melbourne Hard Rock band Teargas, and Thrash Metal band Black Like Vengeance.

During 2006 co-founding member Jack Lukic announced his departure due to family commitments, and 22 days later Steve Cox also left. He was replaced by Adrian Alimic of Manic Opera, and Christian Nativo took the place of Jack Lukic on drums. Jake Lowe was enlisted to perform live keyboards. The band’s fourth album, The Fourth Season was released on the 24th August 2007, through Dockyard 1. 

In late September 2008 Vanishing Point once again took off for Europe this time supporting good friends Sonata Arctica with Norway’s Pagans Mind. The tour was a success and the band played in many new countries where the band had never been before. Vanishing Point returned home to Australia for a short break and then to fully concentrate on writing the follow up album to The Fourth Season. 

2009 was spent writing and playing shows both locally and interstate where the band was received positively. Unfortunately the writing process had hit a dead end with some members wanting to pursue different avenues musically which therefore delayed the next album. Eventually this led to a shift in band membership.

In 2010 co-founding member Tommy Vucur left the band due to musical differences. Adrian Alimic and Jake Lowe also departed the band in 2010. In 2011 Simon Best joined the band on bass, followed by Scott Griffith on guitar and in February the recording for the fifth album began. Scott Griffith decided to spend more time on his own band and left Vanishing Point. He was replaced by James Maier. 

Distant is The Sun was released in 2014 to much critical acclaim. The line-up was now Silvio Massaro on vocals, Chris Porcianko on guitars, James Maier on guitars, Simon Best on bass and Christian Nativo on drums. In September 2014 Christian Nativo left the band.  Shortly afterward Simon Best also left. 

By July 2015 the band had a full line-up again, with Jordan Trevan joining on drums and Adrian Alimic re-joining on bass. 

(2) Vanishing Point was a Melodic Heavy Metal band from Japan. They were formed in 1985, and split up at some point after 1994. Their last known line up consisted of Ogami Tsubasa on vocals, bass and keyboards, Hanawa Shindi on guitar and Mr. X on drums. Former singer, Mizuki Rei also sung for the band Madstar. Vanishing Point released one EP ("Fantasy of Future" in 1987), one full-length album ("Twilight Zone" in 1988), and two demos ("V - 2" in 1992 and "V - 3" in 1994). 

(3) Vanishing Point - Mid 1990's Electronic artist from Brazil.

Little is known. There is a 1995 release titled The Shaman Calls. More info here: http://www.discogs.com/artist/Vanishing+Point+%282%29

(4) Vanishing Point - Mid 1990's Electronica maybe from The US. Possibly the same as the Brazil artist. 

This Vanishing Point contributed a song titled Why People Don't Eat Carpet to a compilation released in 1995, titled No Structure #1. More info: http://www.discogs.com/Various-No-Structure-1/release/1074249

(5) Vanishing Point - Early 2000's Electronica possibly from The UK. 

Two 12" LPs were released in 2001, Maverick and then All The Glitters / Maverick. These were released by Polyester Music and Polyester Recordings, respectively. More info here: http://www.discogs.com/Vanishing-Point-All-That-Glitters-Maverick/master/378173

(6) Vanishing Point - Mid 2000's Electronica possibly from The UK.

Contributed a song titled Chelsea Bridge to a double CD, released September 13th, 2004 and titled DJSS - Jazz & Bass Session IV LP. More info here: http://www.discogs.com/DJSS-Jazz-Bass-Session-IV-LP/release/341876

(7) Vanishing Point - Early 2010's Electronica from Poland.

This artist has contributed to two compilations, Nitodrum Series: Part Dwa, released October 3rd, 2011, and Nitodrum Series: 5年Nitodrum, released May 9th, 2011. Both compilations are digital downloads. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vanishing+Point">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.