Vant are an Indie rock band from Sunderland, UK formed in 2014 by frontman and songwriter Mattie Vant. In 2015 they signed to Parlophone Records.

The band came together in London, while Mattie was working at Dalston venue, Birthdays.

A lot of VANT's lyrical themes deal with political issues, with Mattie citing inspiration from global issues.

VANT toured throughout 2015 and have made appearances with Royal Blood, toured on DIY Magazine's NEU tour with The Big Moon and InHeaven and appeared at several festivals through the summer, including Reading and Leeds Festivals, Secret Garden Party and Dot To Dot Festival. They started 2016 with an appearance on BBC Radio 1's Future Festival and toured the UK and Europe through the beginning of the year . They continue into festivals through the summer, including Glastonbury Festival, 2000 Trees, Japan's Fuji Rock Festival, Reading and Leeds Festivals, plus one off dates with Biffy Clyro and Catfish and the Bottlemen.

The band released their debut album "Dumb Blood" on 17 February 2017. It peaked at number 46 on the UK Albums Chart.

On 2 October 2017, the band announced via Facebook that they were taking an “indefinite hiatus." With the announcement the band also declared their upcoming tour, "The Last Days Of Punk" to be their final and announced a final mini-album called "TALK LIKE THUNDER."

On 18 November 2018, exactly a year after the band's last show, a video was posted on the band's social media pages of lead singer Mattie as well as their profile pictures being turned into a black screen and the stylization of the band's name being changed to lower case. On December 3rd those signed up to the band's mailing list were sent a link to a new song entitled "propaganda machine." The song showed the band turning away from punk rock sound of their previous music and turn towards a hip-hop/pop inspired sound.

On January 25th 2019, Vant released the single "Thank Lucifer", followed by EP "Exoskeleton" on April 12th. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.