There are several bands with this name: 1. a Scottish metal band, 2. a jazz project of British drummer Simon Phillips and keyboarder Jeff Babko.

1) Edinburgh based Hard Rock / Metal band, Vantage Point, self released their debut album, Daredevil On The Shore, in 2008 after four years of gigging on the local scene and accumulating original material. This first album, perhaps more than subsequent releases, displays the bands main influences of Iron Maiden & Judas Priest along with touches of Deep Purple & AC/DC. As the heart of the band is good classic songs with melody, which they are not only able to write, but pull off through singer Murray’s soaring vocals and the searing lead work of guitarist Kane. 

The album was followed up in 2009 by the Driller Killer EP, which featured 3 new songs, along with a remix of live favourite, 24 Hour Breakdown, which featured on the debut album and has been played at every single gig the band has performed. 

A gigging highlight followed in 2010 when the band played their 100th gig, an event which was featured in the Metro newspaper, where Carrie Gregory wrote, "... it's Edinburgh talent at its finest. To think Vantage Point are not even signed yet seems almost criminal."

2011 saw the release of the bands second album, Tomb Of The Eagles, of which Mick Burgess of Fireworks Magazine stated, “'Stressed Out' an ode to harassed workers everywhere and with its killer chorus, scything riff and screaming solo from Kane is a highlight along with the savage riffage of 'Shetlamb, Driller Killer'” & “Lead singer and bassist Murray Graham possesses a set of pipes that could shatter glass at a hundred paces ...”

The band kept working and in 2012 released the six track CD, High Maintenance Girlfriend, which contained a couple of exclusive tracks plus a preview of songs from their forthcoming concept album, Demonic Dinner Dance. “Vantage Point is certainly a destination with a view to die for.” Wrote Steven Reid in his review of the EP for Fireworks magazine, while it was awarded 7/10 in Powerplay Magazine.

2013 has seen the release of the bands most commercial track yet, with the digital only single, Just When I Wasn’t Lookin’ being made available through Amazon, iTunes, Spotify etc, further increasing the bands body of work. 

Their most ambitious piece of work though was released in the summer of 2014, gaining a 8/10 rating from Powerplay magazine, the concept album, Demonic Dinner Dance, which takes the bands writing to a new level. It includes the use of string and horn sections to augment the classic songwriting that has been evident of each of the bands releases so far. 

--

2) A jazz project of Simon Phillips & Jeff Babko with additional musicians, see also their individual artist profiles. They recorded a studio album named Vantage Point and the DVD Resolution released by AIX Records in 2006. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vantage+Point">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.