Variable Unit is more than a band. It is a community dedicated to the musical merging of breaks, hip-hop, down tempo, dub, classical, rock and soul. As the name suggests, the members of Variable Unit fluctuate over time. 

Although the personnel vary, there remains continuity in both the band's sound and feel; with a consistent, musical consistency, where high production is the standard for the group's evolution, the instrumentation is dedicated to the direction of the composition. 

Matt Montgomery stands as the only musician on every Wide Hive full releases for a reason. He has an unusual rhythmic and melodic blend that resonates incredibly well on bass. He is a primary contributor to Seven Grain, Cold Flow, Handbook for the Apocalypse, Mahemystics and Mayhemystics OutBreaks. Tracks such as, Butterfly in the River Nile, Seven Grain, and Handbook for the Apocalypse bear his sonic touch. 

DJ Zeph has strongly contributed to Seven Grain and Cold Flow. His edgy beats and cautious cutting instill a hardness found from the foundry of his hip-hop roots. For Zeph's sound, check out tracks like Short Bread, R.J. Dub, Royal Jack and Break It On Down. 

Kat Ouano's caresses keys to create soundscapes. Her impressionistic flavor of classically minded patterns grace Seven Grain, Cold Flow and Handbook for the Apocalypse. 

Handbook for the Apocalypse marked the arrival of versatile keyboardist Jacob Elijah Ajinsky on B-3 Organ and Synthesizers. Jacob's contribution to Mahemystics and Mayhemystics OutBreaks saturated tracks with moody synthesizers and epic chordal raging. As is the case with most bands, drums have seen the most transition with Variable Unit. Ron E. Beck's undeniable rhythm infects Seven Grain with his targeted fills and consistent funkiness. 

Elton Bradman, Max MacVeety and Thomas McCree all play on Cold Flow with help from Ben Conrad and some of Zeph's breaks, the overall drumming on "Cold Flow" is thick. Thomas McCree contributed to Handbook for the Apocalypse, Mahemystics and Mayhemystics OutBreaks. Setting a solid rhythmic foundation with Matt Montgomery. 

Gregory Howe has played guitar and percussion, orchestrated arrangements and composed numerous pieces for all Variable Unit productions. His influences are best felt on Jumentious, Sirens, and throughout Handbook for the Apocalypse. More recently he carved tracks such as "Seals" and "Plutonian Plutarchy" for the Mayhemystics projects. 

Ismail Azeem began with three tracks on Seven Grain and continued to deliver strong pieces on Handbook for the Apocalypse. His eloquent and intricate MC stylings almost mask the power of his poetry. Almost unparalleled in current hip-hop, his words give depth to our collective human experience, offer insight into metaphysical realms, and always contain provocative metaphors and analogy. 

Engineer Ben Conrad honed Seven Grain and Cold Flow to a new level of audio sonic fidelity. 

Many other players contribute to each record. They include Wide Hive favorite Tim Hyland on flute and trumpet, virtuoso guitarist Calvin Keys, Paul Hanson on bassoon, and new addition vocalist extraordinaire Omega. 

Engineer five time gold record engineer Tone has contributed greatly toward carving an ever evolving sound for Variable Unit on Mayhemystics OutBreaks, Mahemystics, and Handbook for the Apocalypse.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Variable+Unit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.