1.) Vatrene Ulice is a classic rock band from Zagreb, Croatia, formed in 1990. The current band members are: Goran Filipancic- Fila, Mario Baric, Daniel Vukoja and Marin Jovanovac. In the early nineties band has performed in many, then the popular clubs in and around Zagreb. Band wasn't active in the mid-nineties. 

At the end of the nineties the band again began active work with a concert in Kulusic in year 2000 which gained great media attention. After that, band recorded their first album at Studio York (Dekani Koper in Slovenia), produced by Jadran Ogrin for label Memphis – Zagreb in 2003. From the first album, band made 3 videos for the songs: ‘Dok padaju glave’, ‘Buntovnik bez razloga’ and ‘Odlazim’.

Recording of the second album began in February 2009 at Studio Sismis (Velika Gorica, Croatia), produced by Zoran Svigir – Svigi for the record label Dallas records – Zagreb. Album '9 PO RICHTERU' was released in September 2009. Band presented this album by 3 videos so far, for the songs: ‘Usnuli grad se budi’, ‘Kreni’ and ‘Huligan gradskih ulica’. 

Discography:

VATRENE ULICE – 2003 

9 PO RICHTERU – 2009

More about Vatrene Ulice on:

http://vatreneulice.com/ 

http://www.myspace.com/vatreneulice 

2.) Vatrene Ulice, a rock/heavy metal band from Split that was active in late 80s. The band is related to Witchcraft, Zippo and Osmi Putnik.

They were :

Vocals, ocasionally bass, ocasionally guitar - Siniša Vuco (Živo Blato, Klanje Ljudi, Witchcraft, Evil Blood, Magistrala band)
Guitars - Ilija Utrobičić (Gibonni's band)
Guitars - Goran Pinterić Pinta (Witchcraft, Zippo, Capones Band)
Drums - Elvis Katić  (Zippo, Witchcraft)
Bass - Milan Čojić Čoja (Witchcraft)
Keyboards - Dražen
Vocals in the beginning - Dragan Ikodinović - Gally
Ocasionally vocals and bass - Dane (Zippo)
Davor Gradinski Dado - bass (Osmi Putnik, Witchcraft, Black Dog)
Bojan Antolić Božo - gitara (Osmi Putnik, Hladna Točka)
Goran Bašić Bašo - bubnjevi <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vatrene+Ulice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.