There are several bands called Vault.

1. Vault was a Heavy Metal band from The Netherlands, releasing one 7" and one full-length ('No More Escape'), both in 1983.

2. Vault is an online experimental/ambient collaboration formed in 2010, with the goal of creating music with a spooky/paranormal theme, and to promote independent artists. Also known as vault compilation 

3. Vault is the name of the band that Sar Benett of Deadmaya was in before Deadmaya formed.

4. Vault is a former electronic music producer from Romania.

+VAULT+ is:

Ari - bass
Tashea - lead guitar/vocals
Sar - guitar/vocals
Dhafie - drummer
/rif [haha!] - the Back Bone, uhmm SPINE!

VAULT was officially formed on January 2004, after being inspired by Jonathan Davis from Korn in concert. The band was started by Tash and Sar who have been playing music together since they were kids. Chicks w/attitude ready to take control of the music industry...um... Well, sorta.
Our music is a paraox. We'd say it's one of a kind. The sound is unique because each of us members are influenced by many different types of genres.
Our Vocalist Sar: She is more of the new skool punk-to thrash hard core music type of chick (Hatebreed, My Ruin, Norma Jean)
Tash: down w/ the old skool metal n' Metallica and blues/rock n' roll hype guitaring.
Ari: He is the Fieldy and Tripp of the group.
Dahfie: Our Rage drummer, he's a fan of Rage against the machine which brings us to Rifqi De La Rocha: Our backbone, our spare, he helps out on everything man//backing pipes.
All of that combined, gives you VAULT. The Forbidden Taste of True Music, We're the Raves from the Grave! You are the next Enemy...

Vault is a former electronic music producer from Romania. Being an uncharacteristic Romanian lad, Vault began his long term journey on the path of the music industry starting august 2012. Slowly but surely he started building his career, joggling with all sorts of music genres which varied from chill to filthy vibes, never surrending himself even though he barely had any idea about the field he was wandering in.
In what concerns his music taste, he is merely attracted to the more dark and high-pitched sounds (i.e. getter, zomboy, must die!, eptic), but he never backs down neither does he decline a challenge.
Throughout time, he has had several collaborations with Romanian producers, including Motion Monument, with whom he has shared two tours across the country. Though being new to the industry, he shortly signed one of his releases with the british label DubAllOrNothing.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vault">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.