Vector Lovers is the moniker used by electronic music producer Martin Wheeler of the United Kingdom. Wheeler is described by the Soma label as a "computer nerd" and "80s-obsessed knob-twiddler" and creates music which falls into the intelligent dance music (IDM) and electro genres. His music has been compared to and is influenced by such acts as Kraftwerk.

“Vector Lovers has hit on a sound that’s more relevant than 99% of modern electronic music…inspirational, essential and as much a landmark release as Hacker & Kittens ‘Frank Sinatra’" Richard Brophy (DJ magazine).  Vector Lovers unique production style is winning him fans across the globe. With nods to musical influences such as Kraftwerk, Depeche Mode and early synth pop to The Happy Mondays, Velvet Underground and My Bloody Valentine. Nowadays Vector Lovers is listening to modern electronic geniuses like Isan, Boards Of Canada and Aphex Twin, and labels like Toytronic, AI and Ghostly International. This release is also a new direction for Soma with its deep and dreamy electronic lullabies. 

Vector Lovers came to Soma’s attention through his own Iwari.com label and his two limited single releases, the ‘Roboto Ashido Funk EP’ and the 7” ‘Electrobotik Disco / Girl & Robot’. These two releases were big sellers in Glasgow’s specialist record shop Rub A Dub and Martin also performed a live set at Paisley’s legendary Club 69. An endorsement to his music if ever there was one! The Iwari.com label continues to release the best in electronic music with recent releases from Scape One and Namke Communications. A Soma connection was coincidentally revealed when Fenetik artist Sidewinder announced he was friends with Martin from when they both lived in Reading in the early 90’s. The two restored communication and Martin soon became the latest signing on Soma’s ever-expanding roster. Iwari also means ‘drunken corruption’ in Japanese…he was always going to get on well with the Soma crew!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vector+Lovers">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.