There is more than one artist with this name:

1. Veil  (ベール) is a Japanese girl group under Avex Management. They debuted on August 10th, 2022 with the single “Taste.” The members consist of Komano Haruka, Nishikawa Juri, Sakata Kotone, Tsutsui Yua, and Ando Rinka.

2. VeiL is a Depressive Black Metal band that deals in concepts of heritage, paganism, and other Pagan related ideals. The debut release, titled "Dolor" was released on cassette in 2004 by Terrorwolfe Productions. "Dolor" has now been released on CD by Stellar Winter (Russia) with all new art/layout and 1 unreleased track.The new full length, titled "Sombre" was released in July 2008 by Stellar Winter.

3. Veil is a Greek Death Metal band formed in Karditsa, Greece in 2003. The band consists of the following members George E (drums, vocals), Chris Sven (guitar, vocals), and George Sven (bass). Their first demo "Forest Oblivion" was recorded in summer 2005, consists of five (5) songs, accompanied by an intro and an outro, with a style of music that fuses black, doom, and death metal. Their first E.P. "Blinkers Define the Spasm" contains five (5) death metal songs and it was self-released on September 2009.

4.  Veil was a progressive rock band based in Wollongong on the South Coast of NSW. They are now known as Fuelled Within. It's members each have very different musical influences and backgrounds and with this, they come together to produce a unique fresh sound. The band started off as a three piece instrumental outfit with Bryce, Scotty and Adz jamming material together for sometime before the lucky find in vocalist G. Soon they established their foundations on the scene as a four piece, providing a dynamic sound and live show. Still relatively early on in the life of Veil, a close friend to the band, Sven, joined and completed the line up. 

5.  VeiL (IT) was born in the autumn 2005 when Luca (drums), Matthew (bass) and Daniel (guitar) formed a band dedicated to play German-style thrash metal and hardcore. The entry of Beppe in 2007 as lead guitarist and vocalist and the subsequent release of Daniele change the style of the group that started moving in more death - doom metal paths. In 2008, the arrival of Matt (bass) completed the line up. They named their band after the songs of Cynic ("Veil of Maya ") and MANILLA ROAD ("Veil of negative existence"). At the end of the year, the group moved on to the premises of the city, and in December their first demo, Freedomicide, saw the light. In mid 2010, after a series of events Matthew left the band. After a period, during which Veil are consisted only of Beppe and Luke, they started looking for new members and new horizons for their music. Jordan, former guitarist of ENDOVEIN, officially joins the group in late July. Immediately after Andrea Marino, bass player of considerable ability, joins the band,  finally completing the line up. At last, Veil are complete and ready to go on stage with a style quite different from the previous death - doom.

6. Veil was a Japanese Heavy Metal band in the 80's.

7. Veil (esp) is a band from south Madrid playing thrash metal. It was created in 2005 by Ruben (guitar, ex-No Fate, ex Dawn of the Damned), Miguel (drums), Rodri (vocals, ex Dawn of the Damned, Bloodline) and Nano (bass, The Solvers), with the intention to play old school Thrash Metal, influenced by bands like Sepultura, Slayer and Kreator. Later, Nano and Rodri left Veil to focus on their own projects, and Capi (bass, Bloodline) and Albert (Voice) came to the band. Soon also came Curi (guitar, Arraz), but he left the group soon.

8. Veil was a straight edge hardcore band from Germany. They were active during the 90's and released several albums and EP's including a split 7" with Drowning Room. They also appeared on several compilations where the "Violent World: A Tribute To The Misfits" is the most famous one. During their hayday they played and toured with bands like Treadmill, Congress, 108, Pole, Morrison, Blindfold, Spawn, Despair, Enfold, Soma and many more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Veil">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.