Veiled Moon is a metal band from Naples, Italy, formed in 1996. Since its foundation the band tried to do something new in the Neapolitan metal scene of that period, playing a singular mix of thrash, death and doom metal with some keyboards inserts. However, the results weren't good as expected and after some concerts the band split up in 1998. The only recording of that period is a 4-track demo tape titled "Eine Symphonie des Grauens" (officially released in 2002 in a remastered CD-R version).
Of all the ex-members, the only one who continued in the metal scene was Thorgrim, and after a brief stay in the gothic black metal Hixi, he formed a new band called Aequinoctium that partly satisfied the will of its creator.
In 2005 Veiled Moon was reformed as a one-man band: the will was to use Veiled Moon to express the creative vein of its owner without any kind of musical restriction. The new musical experiences of its mastermind, and the activity in the black metal band Gort as drummer, created a new "sound" for his new project more close to a black metal sound even if the doom metal influences are always in, and the orchestral parts are more present than in the past.
These new influences bring Thorgrim to call some session musicians and the choice went to Lord Lemory as vocalist (also in Gort and Tenebra), Count Leshrac Belmont on keyboards( also in Aequinoctium), Mortiis Daemonium on guitars and Ophelia, who joined the band as permanent member, providing female vocals. With this line-up Veiled Moon released a new demo album titled "...As Fallen Leaves...", published by the indie label Neapolis Niger in Autumn 2007.
After a long period of silence, enhanced by many good reviews of the previous album, Veiled Moon returned to be a one-man band with the leak of Ophelia from the line-up. In the first days of 2011 Thorgrim returned in studios for the first recording of new material.

Official Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/veiledmoon <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Veiled+moon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.