Veldraveth was founded by Michelnd and J. Doueihi in the year 2001 in the city of San Félix, to practice the Black Metal but dark and brutal of Venezuela with a position very been used to and with a mentality clearly Satanista Anticristiana.  

With the passage of time the first member original they decide to leave the band owed as opposed to thought, opting for seeking new members to maintain the band in a single piece, the vocal one R. Capella was the first one in be in the band followed by Mr. G. Múrua, battery.  With this philosophical model they give form to all a series of themes that veria the light under the name of "Funeral by the Shades of Immortal Trees" the first one mcd of the band with very primitive themes, Then in the year 2005 they enter again to the Boet Studios Recording to record the themes that would compose the two mcd following "Our Speech of War" and "Hate - San Félix - Hate" launched In 2005.  

After touching in several cities of Venezuela doing presentations with several bands of Black national Metal as Sagoth and Metzeli, being presented with Massacre of Colombia, they decide to be gone again to prepare the one that at present is the best disk of the band, with a time of composition of 8 months finally is engraved "Undefined God" in the year 2007, a really different plate and that shows the commitment of the position assumed By the band, Satanism and Anticristianismo in each one of the 9 themes that compose this disk.  

Along with the launch of this new work the band decides to stop working with the Mister G. Múrua who was baterísta in the 4 disks that has Veldraveth at present, since I show a negative attitude as for several presentations that itself tenian staves and to a series of other events that does not do lack to name.  Immediately I am sought a replacement for the battery which already was determined and spoken, J. Doueihi decidio to take charge of the instrument and Roydith vocal of the band of Death Metal Brutal Euthanasia took charge of the low as member of session until deciding if forms or does not split of the full-time band.  These actions have given a new upset for the band since they have begun to compose the themes of the new work of the band and we can tell them that is but Death, Satanism and Destruction, Veldraveth continues but alive that never, the debiles are not necessary.  

The future of Veldraveth this aqui, we will carry the name of the Black National Metal well in high, from now on vendra a new one was Satanista and Anticristiana that marked a difference among the past, the present and the future of our organization.  

Hails Veldraveth, Hails Satan. 



alnums:


Hate - San Felix - Hate-2003
Our Speech of War-2003
Funeral by the Shades of Immortal Trees-2001
Undefined God-2007




*this was from the band's website but it was all in Spanish, so I had to use a mediocre translator. Please help and update for better accuracy.   

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Veldraveth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.