http://www.myspace.com/velosity
http://www.youtube.com/velosityvideos

In today’s music world and commercial society, hip-hop and rap music is a genre that is very much displayed, liked, and talked about in the sense of media and entertainment. With so many commercial hip-hop artists being promoted today, it’s hard to distinguish the differences between each artists’ music. Much of the current hip-hop music is alike in terms of look, sound, and meaning. The underlying messages derived from song lyrics, have become less meaningful and creative. At times, it seems as if the commercial world of hip hop is focusing more on the appearance of the performer and far less of the message in the music.

Velosity is an artist/mc who prefers to be original and stay true to his music. Bringing creative and new motivation and background to his lyrics, Velosity (born Matthew Corpuz) has an inspiring future in music and dreams to someday make an impact on the rap and hip-hop world. Possessing his own innovative style and swagger, the 16 year-old Los Angeles native relies on talent and resilience to further strengthen his music career.

Born in the calm, beautiful, north east side of Los Angeles, Velosity lived a regular childhood of the average Filipino-American cultured family. What wasn’t regular however, was his instinctive attraction to music. Growing up, Velosity was surrounded by all styles of music: pop, r&b, classical, jazz, rock, alternative, and hip-hop. What resonated with him most was hip-hop. Velosity fell in love with the music and everything about it, especially the way the music allowed an artist to express their thoughts, feelings, and motives in the lyrics, many times using clever wordplay.

“What mainly influences me to make music is not a particular artist, but rather my love of the hip-hop culture. It’s a beautiful thing. Hip-hop is definitely not what it used to be, but it’s my goal to create music that enables older listeners to reminisce and younger listeners to acquaint themselves with that old school essence, but at the same time with the vibe of new school I present.”

Velosity has had some memorable moments in his short career. For starters, he has recorded over 300 songs of original written material. Velosity has promoted his music by performing at open mic nights at several venues in Los Angeles and Las Vegas. Some notable performances include The Roxy in the famous Sunset Strip and the Knitting Factory in Hollywood. Velosity has also been the subject of an interview on the program “Kababayan L.A.,” a popular Filipino entertainment TV show which airs weekdays across Los Angeles, where he performed a few of his original compositions.

“I bring a diverse range of sound to the listener. I make music with meaning, and also containing different concepts in my songs that are delightful to any hip-hop fan.”

Velosity loves what he does and with his natural drive for success and constant improvement, the sky’s the limit for this young phenom.

"At the end of the day, it doesn't matter what a certain person or group of individuals will say about you. As long as you stay positive, real, and content with yourself, that's all that matters."


Contact

AIM - itsvelosity
velo_sity@hotmail.com
myspace.com/velosity
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Velosity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.