From Geneva, Switzerland, although her nationality is usually defined as Franco-Swiss. Her name is Charline Mignot, but artistically she is known as Vendredi sur Mer.

Coming into the world in the mid 90's, Charline grows up with a very introverted view of the world around her. As she grew up and wanted to explain her surroundings in her own way, she moved more and more towards the arts, fashion and photography, and it is in the latter that she dedicated her studies.

In his quest to make his own mark and push his own boundaries within the aesthetics he used for his photographs, he eventually started writing songs. The first time was with the idea of using self-made music for her photo shoots, knowing that music would help set the mood within the shoot. That's how her first song, "Est-ce que tu t'en souviens", was created.

Their style is quite distinctive, having been described as dream-pop, electro-pop, electro-ambient and even "space-disco". The marriage of Charline's art and direction caught the attention of Swiss and French producers, including Lewis Ofman, who produced her most listened-to single, "La femme á la peau bleue", in 2016, a song that became famous in the fashion world as the official music for one of Sonia Rykiel's 2017 collections.

Mignot's voice is always soft, as if she were singing from a reverie. She uses a spoken voice in all her songs, which come across best as storytelling about women, sensuality, love and heartbreak. In some interviews she has expressed frustration at being associated with radical feminism just because her music is about women, "as if it's something abnormal or radicalised for a woman to write about women instead of men", so she often says that she goes between one gender and the other, to create confusion among listeners.

Vendredi sur Mer's first EP came out in 2017 and is called "Marée basse", the only studio album she has released to date is called "Premiers émois" and was released in 2019 with the single "Chewing-Gum".

Do you like women who make music independently and maintain a beautiful aesthetic to match their creations and their music videos? Vendredi sur Mer is our cool woman of the week and the right choice for you. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vendredi+sur+Mer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.