Gore-Grind band from Basque Country. Formed in 2001 by Iker Núñez  (Vocals also in Necrolust, Kangrena Vaginal, Bilis and Drummer Christian Impaler. The band mix grindcore with many other genres including crust, punk and hardcore. This leads to a fascinating gritty agressive listen, with vocals sprung from the gut which lyrics are describing humor, terror, horror and splatter. The drums are simple but effective with blast beats and 4/4 time signiture which is well excuted by Christian. The guitars are fast, agressive and twist sometimes, mostly sticking to the same riff all the way through the short busts that they have. Iker and Christian began writing some material in late 2001, getting a heads up from bassist Moreta and two guitarists, Jorge Rivas (now in Forensick, Necrolust (Esp)) and Grindfection. This lead to recordings first a promo with five fast tracks totalling to a 10 minutes. Then this hit Tobacco Shit Records with a split with Gorehog which was recieved well by the scene. The band in between 2002-2003, then came up with two demos, one split and one promo. The demos were released entitled "Nekrogrind" which was released by "Genital Herpess Records" in 2002 and another entitled "Venereal disease and the human flesh eaters" by "Brute! Records" in 2003. The promo was released in 2002, which was self-released and an split with Agathocles was also released in 2002. These were again tightening up the bands sound and giving them a cult following in the undergroung scene across the globe. This was when the band came into line up changes with both guitarists leaving, then this was replaced by GutsChrusher bringing in a new feel to the VD camp. This lead to their debut album called "Mondo Macrabe" which was co-issued by "Basque Grind Foundation", "Gential Herpess Records", "Victimas Del Progreso", "Eguzki Bannaketak", "Hormigonera Prod." and "Anarko Records" in 2003. This release was highly reviewed and distributed by these very underground labels, fanzines, etc. The band then tightened up and did five splits with various bands between 2004-2006. These were the split with Mixomatosis which was released in spring 2004 by co-issued record companies such as Hormigonera Productions . Lunatic Asylum split released in  June 2005 which were released by various record companies aswell, the Agathocles split released in december 2005 by various labels most notable was Humildad y Honestidad Records.  Bunder Nekromunda split released by Brute! Productions on christmas day, 2005. Finally, a three way split with Mixomatosis and Poisoned Skrotum released by Coyote Records in 2006. Recently the band have done another split with Ruido de Rabia in 2008 by Reek Of Putrefaction Records, which has two newly recorded songs by the band. This is to get ready for their second full-length album later in 2009.
https://myspace.com/venerealdiseasegore
http://www.venerealdisease.galeon.com/
http://www.discogs.com/artist/747564

(2) Venereal Disease is a rapper from Cincinnati, OH. He has self-released two albums, Tone and Effect and Beethoven's Legs (with Academy Award Winner Michael Caine). He is one of three members of VD & Academy Award Winner Michael Caine & Cuban Thunder. His new album, Addicted to the Game, is set to drop in the fall of 2012.
  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Venereal+Disease">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.