Current line-up:
Jean-Marie Leblanc - Guitar & back vocals
Emmanuel Pronovost - Lead Vocals
Philippe Tougas [Chthe'ilist, Zealotry, First Fragment] - Guitar & back vocals
Philip Truesdell - Drums
Olivier Pinard [Cryptopsy, Neuraxis] - Bass

Since its inception in October 2003, Vengeful went through numerous personnel changes to finally end up with the nucleus of Marc-André Grenier and Jean-Marie Leblanc as core members. The pair then released "Tragedy Lies Ahead..." (June 2005), a three-song EP featuring "Silence", a song that hinted at the band's future sound. 

A month later, Samuel Dufour joined the formation as the second guitarist. At that time, founder and songwriter Leblanc had already begun the writing process for what was to become the band’s first full-length; "Karma", released in June 2007. With Jean-Sébastien Gagnon on drums and returning bassist Etienne Bayard in tow, the band played selected dates through 2006-2007. 

The writing for the sophomore release had started way back in January 2006 and, as 2008 brought important changes with the departure of Dufour after Gagnon’s dismissal and Emmanuel Pronovost’s (Apocalyptism) arrival as a new guitarist, it was time to go to the next level. 

Subsequently, Vengeful entered the studio with Etienne Gallo (Negativa) as a session musician to lay down the drum tracks for the upcoming album and the five-song EP entitled "Tempted by Nightmares" which was released in November 2008. Bayard opted to leave the band to focus on his professional career, leaving the bass slot empty soon to be replaced by Olivier Pinard (Under the Grave).

At the end of 2008/early 2009, the band undertook the recording of the guitars and bass for The Omnipresent Curse which is due sometime in 2009. The band recently welcomed drummer Philip Truesdell in it's ranks while Leblanc has already begun putting together newer material for the third album which is set to be a double-album. 
With this new line-up, Vengeful are now finally ready to unleash their madness upon the ones who dare standing in their way. 

YOUR PUNISHMENT IS STILL OVERDUE... > 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vengeful">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.