Since the bands 1994 inception, Vengince has released two albums, and an assortment of demos. Vengince has producer credits such as Curran Murphy (Nevermore, Annihilator), Dan Kelly (The Frisk, 10 Foot Pole, The Warped Tour Compilation), Juan Urteaga of Vile (Unique Leader Records) and Andrew LaBarre of Impaled (Century Media Records), and Colin Davis of Vile.

Vengince brings to the stage much more than one genre of music, which diversifies and strengthens their crowd draw. Having performed hundreds of shows across the United States, and now shows all over Europe, the band continues to grow and pave a path for a career in the music biz.

Vengince is proud to announce the release of their anticipated new album, A TURN FOR THE WORST with a full European Tour with Pro-Pain to support the new release.

The band delivers to the album, and on stage more than one genre of music, diversifing and strengthing their crowd draw.
The new album shows the evolution of the band's musical creativity, as well as their individual talent. A Turn for The Worst also features a track with Lord Nelson of Stuck Mojo.

Having performed around 500 shows across 42 U.S. States, and 20 Countries Vengince continues to built a loyal world-wide fanbase with their high energy live shows, and intense, unforgettable stage presence.

Vengince has grown in leaps and bounds from their beginnings, having completed two European tours as main support to Stuck Mojo/ Ektomorf, and then Pro-Pain. Vengince also performed at the Rockstar Mayhem Festival and the world's largerst body art andtattoo festival and done 3 D.I.Y U.S. tours.

Vengince has sold over 10,000 albums in the last few years, including over 2,000 copies on their last two European Tours alone. The new album, A TURN FOR THE WORST includes some of Vengince's best material to date, and also best production to date. The producer was Juan Urteaga of Trident Studios (Testament, Exodus, Ted Nugent, Nightranger, Machine Head).
The band is sponsored and endorsed by Jagermeister Music, Axis Percussion, Distilled Entertainment, Black Market Art Company, Dirtbag Clothing, Felony Fights, Wired Energy Drinks, Fuze Drinks, Smokeclear, Dankreations and Union Tattoo. 

Current line-up
Relentless - Lead Vocals (Endrah)
Dank (aka John Winters) - Guitar (Aggression Core, Hatefist)
Woodstock - Guitar
Father - Keyboards, Samples
Connearney - Bass
James "Flatline" Raymond - Drums (Defiance)
Former/past member(s)
Connearney - Bass
Greece - Bass
Band 420 - Bass
Hell B. - Guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vengince">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.