VENOMIN JAMES is a Doom Metal band based out of Kirtland, Ohio USA, formed in 2006. The band released their first album “Left Hand Man” in Sept. 2007 on their own label, Kultland Recordings.

The release of “Left Hand Man” caught the interest of Cleveland metal legend Bill Peters in 2008, President of Cleveland Ohio independant label AUBURN RECORDS and legendary DJ of the world famous “Metal on Metal” radio show, which started broadcasting in 1983. Peters signed the band and released their sophomore album “Crowe Valley Blues” in  Sept. 2010.

Tragedy struck the band in June 2010, with the death of drummer Jared Koston from cancer. Eric Matthews (Pro-Pain, The Spudmonsters, Red Giant, The Alter Boys) has since stepped in as drummer.

VENOMIN JAMES was invited to perform at the prestigious Wacken Open Air 2011 festival in Wacken, Germany on August 06, 2011. Playing to a crowd of 8500+ as a direct warm-up to the Swedish band GHOST, the band gained new fans and opened new doors to returning to Europe.

December 2012, the band parted ways with original vocalist Jim Meador.

July 2013, the band announced new vocalist Mike Martini, releasing a new single "Sailor's Grave" on July 23. A second single,"33rd Degree" followed in December 2013. "Wake the Dead", the third single with Martini, is set for release in Spring 2014.

The band’s unreleased third album "Unholy Mountain" will be finally see release in Summer 2014 on Auburn Records. It is the last album with original members Jared Koston and Jim Meador. An instrumental version of "Unholy Mountain" will see release through the band's own Kultland Recordings label in Spring 2014.

Since 2006, Venomin James has shared the stage with a wide variety of respected acts, including: Karma To Burn, Scorpion Child, KADAVAR, Mothership, Gypsyhawk, Pallbearer, Saint Vitus, Sourvein, Weedeater, Witch Mountain, Lo-Pan, Elder, Trouble, Black Tusk, Valient Thorr, Ghost, Skeletonwitch, Truckfighters, Yob, Dark Castle, Mockingbird, Red Fang, 40 Watt Sun, Suplecs, Backwoods Payback, Ringworm, Fu Manchu, Lord Dying, Midnight, Unearthly Trance, Bad Wizard, Early Man, 3 Inches of Blood, facedowninshit, Artimus Pyledriver, Abdullah, Lo-Pan, and Red Giant.

For more information, visit www.venominjames.com or www.facebook.com/venominjames
Listen to the band at soundcloud.com/venominjames/sets or at http://venominjames.bandcamp.com/

Stream the official releases on Spotify. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Venomin+James">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.