VENTURIA is a french melodic metal band which incorporates symphonic, power, progressive metal elements with female and male vocals.
The band was founded by guitarist Charly Sahona.

After they had signed a record deal with finnish label Lion Music, Venturia's first album "The New Kingdom" was released on April 21st, 2006. The debut album was highly acclaimed by medias.

In 2007, VENTURIA was invited by Swiss Television TSR to record a one-hour live show. During all of that year, the band wrote new songs and worked on new sounds.

In late 2007, VENTURIA went to Switzerland and began the recording of their new opus, "Hybrid", at Artsonik studios.

On October 2008, "Hybrid" was released and again, medias sang the praise of the album. VENTURIA played some gigs and some festivals in Europe during 2009 .
For practical reason, they had to stop working with american male singer Marc Ferreira, Charly became the male singer in the band.

2010, Charly Sahona released his 1st solo album called "Naked Thoughts From a Silent Chaos". In October, drummer Diego Rapacchietti decided to quit the band for personal and artistic reasons.
Former members Charly, Lydie Lazulli and bass player Thomas James Potrel asked their friend Frederic Marchal to play the drums in the band.

In 2011, VENTURIA started recording their third studio album "Dawn Of a New Era" with Kevin Codfert (producer of Adagio, Myrath...) and played some gigs in France.

Charly Sahona was selected over thousands contestants from all over the world to play the live final for the Guitar Idol 3 competition (sort of X Factor for guitarists) that took place in London in December.

The band did a big budget video for the song "What If I" with director Guillaume Voiturier

The 3rd album was released on September, 21st 2012

The second single from the album has been announced as the title track, 'Secret Dream'


Official websites: 

http://www.myspace.com/venturiamusic/

http://www.facebook.com/Venturia

http://www.reverbnation.com/venturia



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Venturia">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.