There is more than one band called 'Venus':

1) Venus - Band from Belgium
2) Venus - Female dance artist.
3) Venus - Hungarian pop-rock band.
4) Venus - First all-female rock band from Chile.
5) Venus - Japanese visual kei band (correct tag: Ｖｅｎｕｓ).
6) Venus - Brazilian Power Metal/Hard Rock featuring Edu Falaschi of Angra.
7) Venus - Thai pop-rock band.
8) Venus - Girlband from Spain.
9) Venus - A collaboration between Sota Fujimori and DJ YOSHITAKA. 
10) Venus - Korean trot girl-group
11) Venus - Twitch streamer from the channel venusworld.

1) The more widely-known Venus was formed in 1997 in Brussels, Belgium. Five artists came together to create the band, already experienced in classical, pop and drama. They worked to create stunning live shows.

Their first full-length album titled 'Welcome To The Modern Dancehall' was released in 1999.

The first half of 2001 has been set as the first holidays for the band in four years.

In 2006 they released the album The Red Room, followed by the single Love & Loss.
They toured this album throughout France, Belgium and the rest of Europe.

On the 23rd March 2007, a 10th anniversary concert was scheduled at the Ancienne Belgique in Brussels. However, at the end of February, Marc A. Huyghens (vocals for the group) announced on Venus' official website that "After ten “out-of-this-world” years – full of way-out adventures, mesmerising concerts, a few chaotic patches, quite a few drunken giggles – I have decided to move on to new intergalactic adventures". The 10th anniversary gig turned into a goodbye concert, including many guests such as members from Girls in Hawaii and Ghinzu, as well as Venus' former double bass player, Walter Janssens and others. A last EP containing covers of Daniel Lanois, Björk and fellow Belgian singer Jacques Brel was released for the occasion.

2) Venus is also a female dance artist licensed by the SAIFAM group.

3) There was a Hungarian pop-rock band called Venus, often written as 'Vénusz'. They finally formed in 1997 and split up in 2002. Their last concert was held at 28th September 2002 in Zalaegerszeg. They had some #1 hits in Hungary, such as 'Kockahas' and 'Régi nyár'. They received a number of awards, and even performed a new hit 'Szép emlék' in the successful Hungarian movie called 'Valami Amerika'. Their lead singer Zsuzsa Varga went solo in 2002. Their official webpage can be found at: http://www.venusnet.hu/

4) Venus was the first all-female rock band from Chile. They started formally on 1992, with founding members Rosemarie Vargas (guitar/vocals), Sara Ugarte, (guitar/vocals), Andrea Alarcón (vocals), Carmen Paz (bass) and Claudia Pardo (drums). At first, they had a punk rock sound, but in the late 90's their sound turned out more rock pop, when they signed with a major label (BMG). Their first album was "El Ataque de Zorrita", in 1996, with Sara on vocals and guitar, Rosemarie on guitar and vocals, Claudia Parra on bass and Claudia Celis on drums. 
In 1997 they were without a drummer (there's few female drummers in Chile), but anyways, they record "Dolor de fin de Siglo" as an independent band-again. This second album, from 1998, has a darker sound, influenced by Marilyn Manson and NIN, as Sara said. 
They split on 2001, but Rosemarie reformed the band, now with her own daughter Venus Cortés on vocals and keyboards, Celia Zurita on bass, María de los Ángeles Ibarra on drums, and Rosemarie herself on guitar and vocals. Their third albums is "atrapada" from 2009.

5) A new Japanese band also with the name Venus formed in November 12, 2007. They are under Tomozo's record label Sequence-Records. More info about them can be found at: http://www.venus1112.com/
correct tag:  Ｖｅｎｕｓ

6) Released one album in 1988. More info: http://www.metal-archives.com/band.php?id=7685

7) The band has one and only album in 2002. It was a self-titled album in Thai named "วีนัส".

8) Venus is a Spanish pop band formed by Diana Tobar, Mimi Segura and Marta Mansilla. Their first single, "Perfecta" was one of the ten songs finalists to represent Spain in the Eurovision Song Contest 2010.

Venus was formed in 2010 as a project to represent Spain in the Eurovision Song Contest, which in 2010 was held in Oslo, Norway. After being announced the list of candidates, the girls occupied the top of the most votes in the RTVE website to select the finalists for the gala screening. Days later he confirmed his presence at the gala, remaining at No. 4 with the song "Perfecta", composed by 2Crusaders - G. Son - Andreas Rickstrand. 

In January 2011 (the 25th) released their first album "Like a Superstar" which features songs in both Spanish and English. 

The group members are known for being the only girl band from Spain and the great beauty:
- Diana Tobar, 21, is originally from Burgos, rose to fame in the popular contest 'Pop Idol' being thrown in the sixth week in front of Elijah Vargas.- Mimi Segura, 29, born in Melilla. She is also known to go on 'Idol' in 2008 was sixth finalist.- Marta Mansilla, 29, was in Popstars in fourth place, later, along with four other girls who won with her, she formed a band 'Belly' but later disowned the group, before she became famous and released several singles on the market without success or promotion.
Style and influences consist of several styles, but the main sound is pop, followed by rock and some techno. They added that their influences are Sugababes, The Saturdays, Girls Aloud, Destiny's Child. 


10) Venus (비너스) is a three-member project girl group under MBK Entertainment and PocketDol Studio. They were formed through the competitive survival reality show Miss Trot in June 2019 and officially debuted on August 6, 2019 with their digital single "Turn Signal".

11) Venus  is a Twitch streamer from the UK. Her channel is called venusworld. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Venus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.