Venus Meadow is a German symphonic metal band.

From their official myspace page:
Transport yourself to a new world. A world where familiar elements merge to from a new sonic landscape -- that stretches as far as your imagination can fly. And as far as your heart can dream. 

This is the soundtrack of your dreamscape: Joy. Sorrow. Passion. Longing. Fear. Tranquility. Grace. Majesty. All can be found in the sounds of this brave new band. 

Let the awesome power of Venus Meadow sweep you away. Let its melodies haunt and enchant you. Let its emotions move you beyond words. 

Six people come together to form this new and breathtaking musical world. Each possesses a unique talent, vision and desire: 

The classically trained voice of Sara manifests an epic range that perfectly suits the limitless horizons of Venus Meadow. Whether she’s singing with a classical discipline or with a gritty rock sensibility, she always imparts an unmistakable passion and beauty to every song. And unlike many female singers, Sara is involved significantly in the the band’s songwriting, ensuring her voice and soul are intimately intwined in the sound and vision of the band. 

Henning is one of the founders of Venus Meadow; and he is also a guitarist, keyboardist and principle writer. Heavily influenced by soundtracks and classical music, and formally educated in arranging for orchestras, he brings an inspired symphonic element to the band. 

Eric Vandenberg, the other founder, powers the other half of Venus Meadow’s mighty guitar sound. Sporting a more American influence -- from blues to classic rock to shredding virtuosity, he adds unique flavour and colour to the some of the more European influences of other members. A published expert, his awesome technical ability and knowledge are showcased regularly in Guitar magazine, as well as in the professionally endorsed clinics he hosts. 

The backbone of Venus Meadow belongs to drummer Christoph. His varied influences include Scandanavian extreme metal, prog rock, art rock as well as iconic bands like Led Zeppelin and The Beatles. He combines formal schooling with a visceral passion to deliver beats that compel you to move your body in time with the band. 

The low end of the band is expertly held up by bassist Holger. He’s inspired by a wide variety of bands and genres ranging from 70s fusion, to AOR rock, to classic and new metal. 

And, finally, there is Sascha, the percussionist and main lyricist of the band. His rhythmic textures perfectly compliment the sweeping sound of Venus Meadow. And his heartfelt storytelling compliments the wide scope of emotion the band conjures in notes and chords. 

Venus Meadow is more than just metal. More than just symphonic. It’s a brand-new musical world, both far away and familiar. Certain to stir your heart and stimulate your mind, it beckons you to take flight beyond the maps of ordinary men and enter a new domain of beauty, power and wonder. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Venus+Meadow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.