It all started in autumn 2004 when Jakob just had learned to play guitar. He and his friend Mats were playing guitar together just for fun but they wanted to take a step further. Jakob knew a guy who could play the piano well: Viktor. He asked him if he wanted to join and he did. The trio was jamming in Jakob’s basement for some months. Mats eventually changed his instrument to bass guitar, he also handled the vocals. Viktor was supposed to play the keyboards but since the band had no drummer, he played the drums on his keyboard. When the winter came, Lucas joined the band but it took a while before he bought a drum kit. In early January he bought one and the band now moved over to a larger place to jam.

The band made many songs during this period and developed their sound during the spring and the summer. When autumn came, Mats decided to leave the band due to problems with his ears. The remaining members kept on playing and started also to look out for new members. Viktor’s classmate Kristofer had just learned to play bass and he was then asked if he wanted to join, which he did. The band was just in need of a singer now. David was asked since Lucas and Jakob knew that he was a good grunter. Since Mats was just singning and did not grunt, the band felt that they needed someone to sing some other parts too. Jakob started to make some singing parts. The line-up was now complete and the band was now ready to hit the stage.

Late summer 2006, the band recorded a self-titled demo. It contained four songs and was recorded by Micke Jonsson in Perstorp, a small place in south Sweden. After the demo was released, the band played some shows and increased their fanbase while writing some new songs. In May 2007 they played live in Ljungby Närradio, the local radio in Ljungby. The show was recorded and later released as a CD. Only 40 copies were made since the band felt that they wanted to have their songs in good quality. Many new songs were introduced on this CD and the band wanted to record them in studio. In autumn 2007 they entered the studio for the second time to record Veracity. It was recorded in The Black Lodge studio in Örkelljunga again together with Micke Jonsson. The CD was released in April 2008.

Right now the band is making some new songs and they’re also on the lookout for shows to play. 

The band members are:
Jakob - Guitar, vocals
Viktor - Keys
David - Main vocals
Lucas - Drums
Simon - Bass
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Veracious">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.