Verbal Kent has been recording and performing Hip-hop music since 1998. He got his start as a rhyme writer during the early nineties, a treasured period in the young history of rap music. You see, back then Hip-hop music was really good. Inspired by the climate of the era, Verbal would spend hours writing raps in the basement of his parents Chicago home. Diving deeper into hip-hop's form and power, what started as a hobby quickly turned into a positive addiction. Once simply something to do, the art of creating Hip-hop music became his first true love.

By the age of 18, Verbal took the show on the road. He moved out of his parents basement. After years of "thinking about taking it seriously", VK founded the late nineties ground breaking Chicago Hip-hop band "Organic Mind Unit", or "OMU" Together, VK and OMU would release two albums and play over 180 shows within three years. In 2003 the group would disband, mostly due to Keyboard player William Kurks' decision to "just not show up to practices anymore" Not letting that stop him, Verbal released his first solo record "What Box" on Chicago's Gravel records in late 2003 and began to gig as a solo artist. The Chicago Tribune, Chicago Sun-Times and Chicago Reader took note of his release and received it well. URB, Elemental, and Vibe magazines also took to the LP. However, within months of his debut release, Verbal Kent survived an attempt on his life. His throat was slashed in an alley near his home, the wound just missing his jugular vein by centimeters.

Kent would use his music as therapy, helping him to become a writer with more depth and clearer vision. By 2004 VK had made a name for himself inside most circles of indie rap fans and amongst his peers. Sharing the stage with legendary artists De La Sol, The Pharcyde and Krs-1, and underground kings Mr. Liff, Brother Ali and Atmosphere gave Verbal the confidence he needed to take himself seriously as an artist. By 2005 He had appeared on 12 indie releases. He played over 300 shows. His near death experience serving as motivation, Kent prepared his sophomore release "Move With the Walls". With production form Oddisee, Copperpot and long time friend Kaz 1, as well as guest appearances from Ill Bill and UK legend Blade, "Move With the Walls" was released in October of 2006. He would support the release with three U.S. tours. The LP received notice and acclaim from XXL, Scratch, URB, and Cool eh' magazines.

Kent released a single form the Album entitled "Dead Serious" in April 2007 In the United Kingdom. He supported the release with a three-week tour, ending with a date in Berlin. UK press gave the single rave reviews. The Hip Hop Connection gave "Dead Serious" 4/5 stars. Dj Mag named "Dead Serious" the "Money Shot" of the month. Blues and Soul Magazine called it "This Issues must have" in July 07. Knowledge magazine said, "VK takes you where other rappers fear to tread".

For Verbal, 2007 concluded having toured the U.S., the UK and France. He even did a spot date in Biel, Switzerland to support Mr Liff and Akrobatik. To top off the year, VK released the album "Eat Them" featuring his crew "Giraffe Nuts" in September. Legendary producer J-zone laced some of the titles, with Verbal and his crew stomping each track. In 2007, VK shared the stage with GZA, Boot Camp Click, Pigeon John, Canada's Swollen Members, Sadat X, Ed Og, Little Brother, One Be Lo, Redman and many more, reaching a wide range of audiences. 2008 looks to be VK's best year yet, as he is set to release his third solo LP entitled "Fist Shaking", featuring production from Oddisee, The Snow Goons and Marco Polo. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Verbal+Kent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.