Verdict of Vengeance (VoV) are a metal band from Dallas, Texas that mix elements of thrash metal, death metal, groove metal and hardcore. 

Al Goode, Chris King, Matt Fiddes and Gerad Deuvall formed the band in 2006 with the intention of making in your face thrash and death metal music with aggressive vocals. The bands lineup was completed when Gerad Deuvall suggested his cousin Greg Norman perform vocal duties for the band. In late 2006, VoV independently released a 4 song EP entitled Loyal Opposition. For the next 2 years VoV would frequently headline local shows in the Dallas/Fort Worth area garnering much local fan support while frequently winning local battle of the bands. As support grew for the band they began opening locally for large summer tours such as Taste of Chaos and Summer Slaughter. In 2009 drummer Gerad Duevall decided to part ways with the band, leaving VoV in search of a drummer for nearly an entire year before finally recruiting Venezuelan born drummer Reuben Riguero in early 2010. Verdict of Vengeance went on a hiatus in March of 2011 after members decided to go their separate ways musically. Verdict of Vengeance reformed with a new bass player in July of 2012 and have stated that they are in the process of writing new material.

Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/verdictofvengeance

VoV has shared the stage with the an array of different metal and hard rock acts such as Arsis, As Blood Runs Black, Atreyu, Avenged Sevenfold, Beneath the Massacre, Bless the Fall, Bullet for My Valentine, Caliban, Cattle Decapitation, Cephalic Carnage, Daath, Decapitated, Destruction, God Forbid, Idiot Pilot, Ion Dissonance, It Dies Today, Kataklysm, Necrophagist, Premonition of War, Six Feet Under, Speed/Kill/Hate, The Absence, The Faceless, Trivium, and Vader.

Current Members:
Greg Norman - Vocals (2006-current)
Chris King - Rhythm Guitar (2006-current)
Matt Fiddes - Lead Guitar (2006-current)
Reuben Riguero - Drums (2010-current)

Former Members:
Gerald Deuvall - Drums (2006-2009)
Al Goode - Bass (2006-2011) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Verdict+Of+Vengeance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.