1- Verity (2004 - 2009) was an American acoustic duo, two individuals with a vision for the stage and a revolving door of musical influences. 
Playing a host of songs that would fit anywhere between a coffeeshop venue to a rock-oriented bar, Verity strives to be creative and stretch the concept of the word 'genre'. Their first show as a 4-piece was a Battle of the Bands that resulted in a tie for first place, and since then, they had continued to strive for artistic integrity and success until their break-up in late 2009.

2- Verity is an Italian eurodance act, that was produced and created by Graziano Fanelli, Paola Peroni and Pieradis Rossini. This project recorded the hits "Remember", "Follow Me" and "Don't Let Me Down".

3- Verity ("Verity & The Shades), a South African singer/songwriter who has crowd funded her CD and donated a large part of the proceeds to good causes in South Africa. 

Verity & The Shades pop/rock music has a distinctive African flavour and features singer/songwriter Verity and top musos Tony Paco from Mozambique on drums, Nelson Malela from Congo on keyboards, Aldert Du Toit on lead guitar & Helder Gonzaga from Mozambique on bass. This meeting of musicians from across the continent has resulted in a band, that while diverse in its influences manages, to deliver "pop rock songs with a flavour of Johnny Clegg strum guitar, Suvuka drumming & tamer version of a mix of Jewel & Shakira vocals." (Issue 2, Music Review). 
 
Verity is best known for her innovative album project where she invited people to 'buy an album that didn't exist'. Her business model has been applauded around the world for innovation and making a difference with 10.6% of every album sold was split between two charities – POWA & her Live Your Dreams Foundation. In a world first, Verity sold over 2000 copies in 25 countries before going into studio and was able pay over R30000 to the two charities. The album, named “Journey” by her fans, was recorded by award winning producers Paul McIver & Brian O'Shea and released in July 2008 having made South African music history.  
 
Verity's story ultimated captured South Africa's heart and has been shared on Carte Blanche, Journey to the Core and The Power Within as an inspiring example of what is possible when we dare to follow a dream. As a result Verity & The Shades are highly sought after not only for uplifting concerts but also for innovation events around the country.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Verity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.