There are many artists using this name:

1)  Veritas (Seattle/Los Angeles) is an alt-rock/synth-pop 5-piece band fronted by a male-female songwriting pair who bring the stage to life with their friction and produce "a ferocious live show" (epiTUNES.com). Their songs often explore the underbelly of the human psyche, but remain energetic and danceable.


2)  Veritas (RUS) is a groove/trash band from Saint-Petersburg which was initially formed in the end of september 2007 under the name Пантеон. The group plays rigid melodious music with socially-sharp texts. 

Current line-up:
Maksim Lozhkin - Vocals
Danslav - Guitars, Back Vocals
Johncore Lebedev - Guitars
Kirill Gorin - Bass, Back Vocals


3)  Veritas (UK) is an indie pop/rock band with a touch of Celtic goth.


4)  Veritas (USA) was a straight edge hardcore band from south Florida.


5)  Veritas (USA) was a Black Metal band working on a Demo. There were no official recordings but there are a few unreleased tracks floating around.


6)  Veritas (CAN) was an alternative/punk band that only put out one album titled black dark/black cold. All 4 members then went on to form heralded Calgary guitar pop band Women


7)  Veritas (NL) was a project of Jules Smokes Pot, the style is Techno/Drum'n'Bass and there are two demo's produced. 


8)  Veritas (NL) was a progressive doom metalband from the Netherlands.


9)  Veritas (Germany) is a communist band from Dresden with more than 15 albums to download for free. Mainly acoustical music with one main singer (sometimes supported by a Chinese woman), a guitar, and other instruments. Veritas' lyrics are heroic, pro-socialistic and anti-capitalistic. Veritas' vision and goal is to support a new proletarian revolution and the revival of the German Democratic Republic like in cold-war-times.


10)  Veritas (USA) is a Hardcore/Pop Punk/Rock band from Tennessee.

11) Veritas (USA) is a Lo-Fi and Synthwave producer who released a track inspired by voicelines from the game Escape From Tarkov, which he streams on twitch almost every day. The track was well received, and he continued to pump out tracks inspired by both video games, and figures from the science community that inspired him. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Veritas">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.