Verkrag, hailing from Bloemfontein, South Africa, is the solo project of Anton van Niekerk. ‘Verkrag’ is an Afrikaans* word meaning; Rape, (raped, raping), violation, assault, ravishment.

By combining horrific and atmospheric sounds and dark Black and Death Metal riffs, Verkrag openly portrays the feelings of insanity and despair. Lyrical content include themes like rape, torture, cannibalism and necrophilia. These acts however are not promoted by any means but merely portrayed through the eyes of the deranged killer. It is a journey into the mind of the psychotic.

Work on the debut album entitled ’13 Victims’ starts in January 2009 and 13 alternative models from around the globe begin contributing rape victim photography to the Verkrag site to be used in the CD design and on t-shirts.

Verkrag is interviewed by beyondthedarkhorizon.com (based in Texas, U.S.A) in February and appeared in the March 2009 issue of “Beyond the Dark Horizon – Other Worlds” magazine. ‘THE CLEANSING of the Whore’ appeared on the compilation CD entitled “In Blackest of Hate – 12 Extreme Tracks”. Verkrag also gets airplay on Beyond the Dark Horizon Radio.

In June Verkrag victims models Vanessa & Elena were chosen to be part of the 24 models (out of more than hundred submissions), in the Dark Funeral Diaboliswear merchandise model contest and are announced the 2 winners in August.
Dark Funeral and The Nordic Rage Metal Festival use banner designs by Anton van Niekerk to promote the fest on the 26th of September and Verkrag gets added to the Dark Funeral Top Friends list on their official myspace.

Verkrag starts finalizing the recording, mixing and mastering of material for the ‘13 Victims’ album in October and sends the material to be reproduced in November only to be told that it simply is too offensive and they refuse to continue even after payments were made…Thus the ‘13 Victims’ debut album is self-financed and officially released on the beautifully blasphemous date of sinful Sunday December 13th.

2010 kicks off with Verkrag getting more International airplay on shows like 'Rage Cage' on CJSW 90.9FM(Canada), ‘Audio Aggression’ on Brutal Existence Radio(U.S.A), and 'Brutalism' (Holland) to name but a few. Interviews also follow from webzines like Mutilador (Mexico), Fueled Magazine (Belgium) and Black Dragon(Sweden).

Canadian horror & fantasy writer Atusha Avarus starts work on ‘The Verkrag Chronicles’. A story inspired by the ’13 Victims’ album but of course with a twist.

Verkrag contributed guest vocals to the track ‘Black Hole’ by Norwegian Black Metal band Wrath Passion. This is the 1st time ever South African and Norwegian Black Metal musicians have worked together in creating a Black Metal piece.

Verkrag made it through 4 rounds of elimination with 24 bands entered from around the globe and won the final round and the right to be called the best band of the past 2 years of the DJ Boo Metal-X Radio All Star Battle of the Bands contest.



*n.
A language that developed from 17th-century Dutch and is an official white language of South Africa.

(Verkrag Biography Aug 2008 – Feb 2010) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Verkrag">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.