There is more than one band with this name:

1) a London-based punk/metal group formed by American singer Vermilion Sands, sometimes labelled NWOBHM. 
2) Vermilion formed in 1996 by Colin McBride and Eric Yates
3) an instrumental progressive metal band from Ghent, Belgium
4) Vaporwave artist

1) VERMILION was a London-based punk/metal group formed by American singer Vermilion Sands who released the EP  "Angry Young Women, 7"  (1978).  The new line-up,  known as VERMILION AND THE ACES released the 7" The Letter in 1979.

2) Vermilion was formed in 1996 by Colin McBride and Eric Yates while still in high school; the two would soon be joined by Danny Oleson and Eric Junge on bass and drum duties, respectively. This initial formation of Vermilion took influence from the sludge of Nirvana, Mudhoney and the Melvins, the experimentation of Sonic Youth and Eric's Trip, and the emotional fervor of Sunny Day Real Estate to create its sound. Guitar dissonance provided the background for Yates' emotionally charged vocals, creating a sonic energy that was reflective of both the band's youth and passion. After a number of shows and the cassette format split-release of "Sidewalk to Venus" (with Left in a Dream), Yates departed from the band in 1999. Bryce Shoemaker would join the band and assume guitar duties alongside McBride. From this point the band began to develop its more instrumental/progressive based compositions. 
This second incarnation became the core Vermilion unit, accountable for the girth of the band's live performances, touring, and recording output during its time in existence. Following the release of "Flattening Mountains and Creating Empires" in 2002, McBride would leave the band, followed by Oleson a short time thereafter. Junge and Shoemaker would enlist the help Bob Hull on bass for a US tour in spring of 2003. Upon return from this tour, Vermilion disbanded. Junge would go on to take over drum duties for The Building Press, as well as form Patrol. McBride and Oleson found themselves playing together again in Speaker Speaker. Shoemaker (along with Hull) went on to form Joules; later he would create Bronze Fawn, and also join Hungry Pines.

Recording: 
Toward the end of 1999, Vermilion recorded its self titled EP with Jake Snider at Spectre Studio, later releasing the recording in early 2000. 
After catching the eye of the small independent label, Redwood Records, the band found itself in the studio again at the end of 2000, this time with Matt Bayles at Studio Litho. This session would produce the "Bo Jackson" 7", released by Redwood in 2001. 
To record their full length, "Flattening Mountains and Creating Empires", the band traveled to Chicago to record with Steve Albini at his Electrical Audio Studio A. Featuring artwork by Roger Dean, the 4 song full length was released on Redwood in 2002 in both vinyl and CD formats.  

4) Vermilion was formed in 2009 when guitarist Timmy Segers and keyboardist Michael Penson met and discovered they shared an interest in progressive music, mainly Dream Theater, Meshuggah,… Drummer Tom Vansteenkiste soon answered an ad for an extra band member and Stef Exelmans joined on bass soon afterward. The band has since gone through a long evolution (mainly, becoming an instrumental band and recruiting a new member on bass, Tom Everaert) but is now here to present its music to you. Vermilion plays a unique brand of instrumental progressive metal that incorporates odd time signatures and a wide range of influences including jazz and fusion. In october 2012 they released their first self produced EP 'Vermilion (#34234)'.

SoundCloud https://soundcloud.com/vermilion_the_band
Facebook https://www.facebook.com/vermilion.the.band
Bandcamp http://vermilion.bandcamp.com/
Official site http://users.telenet.be/vermilion/

Members

Timmy Segers: 6-string and 8-string guitars
Tom Vansteenkiste: drums and percussion
Michael Penson: keyboards, synths and samples
Tom Everaert: bass guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vermilion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.