VEROXITY is a death metal band from Herten, Germany.

The band, in former times known as ASTO VIDATU, was founded by Pölkman(guitar) and Zyn(drums), who started the whole thing in 1993, to show the world their vision of  death/thrash/black and grind. After some years of practising and line up changes,  bassist Urs and Shouter Jox joined the band in 1999.
In December 2001 ASTO VIDATU recorded their first and only demo “The Decadence Within”, which stands for raw oldschool death metal. 
After some local gigs Jox left the band in 2002 and the problem was solved by the current singer Maggi, who joined the band in February 2003.

The band decided to restart and the old ASTO VIDATU songs had been laid to rest. New, more aggressive, songs had been written and after one last ASTO VIDATU show in their hometown in December 2003, they also changed their name to give credit to the renewal. VEROXITY was born!   

The first VEROXITY release, their demo “With Eyes So Blind”, was recorded and released in early spring 2004 and earned some good reviews. Two of the seven tracks also appeared on compilations. “A Warning” on the “German Underground Crossection Compilation, Edition 2005” and “The Liars Dome” on the “Ruhrklang Compilation Vol. 3”. 
 
Since September 2005 the band plays shows on a regular basis. Their music is aggressive death metal with strong oldschool influences, interesting breaks and modern blast attacks, performed with groove and  great abandon, what made the band known to the underground scene. 
.
In the early summer of 2006 VEROXITY started recording their first official CD “Ferocious”, that has been released by the German independent label “Metal On Demand” in July 2007. The eight songs of “Ferocious” also earned good reviews in some well known webzines and printed zines. 

Bassist Urs left the band in April 2008 and has been replaced by Schlimm at the end of May 2008. In August 2008 Schlimm also left the band and in September 2008 Boogy entered VEROXITY. 

The band quit in 2010!

(S.M., December 2010)

www.veroxity.de <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Veroxity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.