Verso might refer to:
1. Romanian rock band
2. Finnish metalband from Pori, Finland.

1. Romanian rock band founded in 1997, best known for Vreau, song which became a hit in 2003 during the first Romanian Big Brother TV show.

Members: 
Cristi Beiu - voice, guitar 
Petru Ivu - guitar 
Andrei Velicu - drums 
Bogdan Tiganus - bass

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/trupaverso


2. The story of Verso begins during the final months of 2004 when the guitarist V-V Laaksonen singer,  Petteri Salonen decided to put a new group together. Soon they asked if Marko Mäkipanula, who had worked with Salonen before - could join the band. Laaksonen wanted Mikko Kulju to take care of the drumming. After a short period of persuading Mikko Kulju agreed  to join the band. Mäkipanula’s old friend, roommate and  a multitalented musician and a jazz monster Mikko Porvari agreed to come and play the second guitar, and additional keyboards.


Idea for the name of the band had been in Laaksonen’s mind for quite a long time, but it had never occurred to his mind that he would attach it to this new group. New members of the band thought through a lot of different options for the name of the band, but none of them pleased everybody. After many evenings of thinking and drinking, Laaksonen brought up his old name idea – “Verso”.


The idea behind the word is of course that it is a word in Finnish and in English. In Finnish “Verso” means ”a Sprout of a flower or a plant”. And in English it means the back of  a sheet of a printed paper or the side of a coin opposite to the observe.


The style of their music was quite different in beginning. 
They started out making really melodic and sentimental songs with some heavy twists. The first cd-single No harm done (2005) was a definitive product of this time containing the title song No harm done and a bit more harder and more complex song called deliver. After No harm done they waited for a year and half and published This cold place, a three song ep containing the songs This cold place, Karma and Ecstasy in grief. This cd was the turning point for Verso’s musical style. The second song Karma would turn out to be the song that showed the members where they would go next. More harder and heavier sound with a different style in singing. They still kept the melodic aspects in their music but started to use more and more thrash metal influences making their music a bit more complex and the arrangements more diverse. In 2007 they published a cd-single called Gone into my blood. The two songs in this cd are a cross-section of Verso’s music style. Gone into my blood is a more melodic and softer song in comparison to the second song Seasons end grey. With this cd Verso finally got their long awaited record deal. An indie label, Kampas records took Verso under its wing a short while after the release of Gone into my blood. Both of the songs, Gone into my blood and Seasons and grey would now be included in their first full-length album.


Petteri Salonen - Vocals
Marko Mäkipanula - Bass
Mikko Porvari - Guitar, Keyboards
Mikko Kulju - Drums, Percussions
Ville-Veikko Laaksonen - Guitar <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Verso">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.