There are various bands/artists under the name Versailles:

1) A Japanese visual kei band

A Japanese symphonic metal band formed in 2007. Versailles' key characteristics are their rococo-esque costumes, dueling guitar sounds and heavy but melodic arrangements. The concept is a formula of "absolute beauty and extreme aestheticism". The duel guitars sound like rose vines grown riot over an agitated rhythm. Those sounds sketch the story of "The Descendants of the Rose". In August 2008, the band had to change their name because of a trademark issue in the USA. Another artist there called themselves Versailles, and warned the band through their lawyer not to use the name in American territory. So the band added "Philharmonic Quintet" after the name Versailles. Versailles was formed by KAMIJO (vocals), HIZAKI and TERU (guitars), Jasmine You (bass) and YUKI (drums). On August 9th, 2009, bassist Jasmine You suddenly passed away, only 30 years old.  Due to this tragic event, the planned major debut on Warner Music Japan was delayed to January 2010. In September 2010, Versailles announced that their temporary support bassist Masashi (ex- ＡＬＰＨＡ and Ａｓｈ) will be the 6th member of the band, while Jasmine You will remain an "Eternal Member" of Versailles.

http://versailles.syncl.jp/
http://www.myspace.com/versaillesjp
http://www.twitter.com/Versailles_P_Q

2) Dianna Marie St.Hilaire, singer, songwriter and piano player.

A emotional rollercoaster of piano keys, and a devious childlike outlook, Versailles little girls all mold together to form one unique artist.

The pain and torment of a sad child come at you with each delicate racing note. Versailles is darkwave that blends the vocals and playing of Tori Amos with an 80s new wave feel. Forming a rich catacomb of deep running emotions.

Following the release of her first EP Believe in 2005 she has had 3 songs released on Cleopatra Records in 2005,2006 and 2007. Versailles is on A Gothic Acoustic Tribute To NIN, A Tribute to She Wants Revenge , Stop Me If You Think Youve Heard This One Before (Tribute to The Smiths), and Gothic Divas. Two of these songs were produced by Gregory Butler who has also produced Switchblade Symphony.

Currently Versailles just got done with new album Broken Dolls released in late 2008. This album holds 15 songs very dear to Versailles based around the emotional side of abuse in many different forms. Following this release is a book of short stories written by Versailles. These stories "Wendy's Razor Blades", "Fade", "Mars", "Broken Dolls", "Pages", and "Legion" all show a girls struggle through different types of abuse and destruction.
Versailles went on a 3 week tour through the south, southwestern and northeastern United States for the "Broken Dolls Tour". Shortly after she went on a month tour with artists Bella Morte and Ego Likeness across the United States. Versailles is currently working on a new EP to be released in 2010 with producer Eric Greedy. Also Versailles is going to be in the newly anticipated film Black Room Doom by legendary producer Kim Fowley.
http://myspace.com/versailles
http://ilike.com/artist/versailles
http://versaillesband.net

3) Math Rock/Post Rock group

Who released one album, “The Great Axis”, and one split 7” with The Mercury Program in the late ’90s.

4) French progressive rock/symphonic rock band

that released 4 albums between 1990 and 1998. Their lead guitarist and singer, Guillaume de la Pilière released 2 solo albums. 3 members of the band joined another French prog band, Mona Lisa, for a studio album in 1998 and a live album at Progfest 2000.

5) A female-fronted gothic band from the US.

6) A rock band from Italy

7) A four piece emo band from Philadelphia <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Versailles">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.