There are, at least, five artists known as Vesna: 1) A St Petersburg, Russia electronica duo. 2) A Russian pop singer. 3) A Czech Republic pagan folk metal band. 4) A Czech Republic female folk band. 5) A Russian female pop group (Весна)

1) A St Petersburg, Russia electronica duo, formed by Alexey Gaponenko & Dmitry Tchernjak (autumn 1998). Alex has been creating music since 1992. When Alex met Dimitri, who had been trying his hand as a dj, he realized how common their musical influences were. There was no interest in simply listening to music; the guys wanted to try creating it. They decided to be called VESNA ("spring" in Russian). VESNA is a group working in the most fresh sound tendencies. It can be characterized as cinematic beat and is a rather successful combination of abstract hip-hop, electro and modern IDM melancholy. They have a self-titled release on the Cheburec electronic music label and have kindly let n5MD put together a 7" and CD of their tracks for north-american aural consumption and has come to be one of the artists that is synonymous with n5MD.

2) Empire Records Production Center is proud to present a rising star VESNA. 
From the very first day VESNA's debut single and music video for a song I Love You got it's huge exposure on the radio and music TV channels as well as on the Internet . 
VESNA means Spring in Russian, this light and fresh name's owner is an outstanding lady with wonderful energic voice of 4 octavas. Voice of VESNA and Dmitri Sher power europop soundproduction is attracting the attention of the listener in no second. 
VESNA and her team are to shoot a music video for a new song in November and in the meantime the work on her debute record, which have been announced to be released on March 1 2011, continue.

3) Vesna has risen up from the ashes of Adultery - pagan-metal band from Czech Republic - in September 2007. The band consists of the old formation of Adultery (except of Akharon) - Elrabor - guitars, vocals; Torgoth - bass, vocals and Von Borowitz - drums - and a newcomer Séitheach - violin, vocals. Their first live performance took place on a mini-festival Dawn of Spring on 22nd March 2008.
Their first mCD „Slovanská Krev” was released by Polish EastSide Records in spring 2009.

4) A Czech female folk band formed in 2017 by a singer-songwriter Patricie Fuxová. Their music is inspired by a traditional Slovanic songs.

5) A Russian female pop group. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vesna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.