There is more than one artist with this name: 

1)  Vesper is a black metal project hardly influenced by thrash metal and rock and roll, born in Rome, Italy, in the beginning of 2008. No cult, no paganism, no stress; only fucking drink and rock and roll attitude.


2) VESPER was created out of the musical merging of Saratoga Springs natives and singer / songwriters Aaron Lewis and Katie Cooper. In VESPER Lewis and Cooper seek to blend and augment both of their personal and distinct songwriting styles, as well as to explore new artistic ground by incorporating a variety of eclectic influences. Combining their exceptional original rock sound with an array of experimental instruments and a little Middle-Eastern influence, VESPER presents top quality songwriting and musicianship with innovative and refreshingly new sounds to create a listening experience that goes above and beyond that of the average band.

3)Another Vesper is a speed power metal band coming from St. Petersburg, Russia. With distinctive folk influences and epic lyrics, they'd become classics of metal.

4) There is also an Acoustic / Folk / Jazz outfit from WEST ORANGE, NEW JERSEY as heard on Other Songs And Dances Vol I 

5) Last and least, Vesper/d_b_s is an alternative radio/party DJ from Poland, who used to host weekly shows at www.bezkitu.com, www.radio-rock.net and www.streamelite.com - three independent online radios promoting rock, metal, industrial and other alternative sounds. He also DJed several industrial rock parties in Poland, together with NINa of www.industrialrock.net. The two also had an irregularly appearing podcast showcasing the less known industrial rock and alternative artists. His podcasts and party mixes can be found online, mostly on p2p networks. At the moment, he can be heard at http://radiopanteon.pl and occasionally DJing as a guest of the infamous Toxik Twinz. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vesper">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.