The hype surrounding Western Australia's VESPERS DESCENT is without question considering the amount they've achieved in their mere 4 years of existence. Originally the brain child of guitarist Grant Burns and vocalist Jack Wolski, VESPERS DESCENT first found their feet as a fully operational battle station in June 2001 as a 4-piece working their influences from the early technical death metal days of the Florida Tampa Bay scene to the melodic sounds of the Gothenburg, Sweden scene.

Drummer Mark Boeijen and bassist Andrew Doepel were added to the fold during this time and the 4 worked furiously for 3 months to put out their first demo. Amidst this, live performances were in order and constant rehearsing and live shows were underway. The result ended in VESPERS DESCENT snaring two important international supports, namely Mayhem and Opeth, which helped the band gain some serious recognition just prior to their first release.

In June 2003, after much delay "Three Faces of Eve" was released with great success. Now combining the talents of second guitarist Shannon Over, the EP launch in November of 2003 was a break through for melodic death metal in Australia. The EP contained the 5 best songs the band had written up until 2002 and was heralded by Australian critics everywhere as "Astounding!".

Throughout 2004 VESPERS DESCENT continued to promote their EP along with supporting many reputable Australian metal bands such as Destroyer 666, Days End and Alchemist. The band was also selected as support for the Perth leg of Exhumed's Australian Tour 2004. After supporting Days End on their national tour ( Perth leg ), the band parted ways with Doepel and instilled the services of Dave Sandstrom, current bass player for Pathogen. With Sandstrom in tow, the band continued to finish up material for a full-length release slated for 2005.

VESPERS DESCENT entered Sovereign Studios in February of 2005 to record the long anticipated album only stopping in June for 10 days to jump on their first national tour supporting US death metal merchants Hate Eternal. The band were met with much praise around Australia's east coast, selling out of all copies of the EP, shirts, and samplers.

Returning home, the album was finished up in September and after filming their first clip to the song "Cardinal Red", Visions in Verse was released on November 5th 2005. Performing in front of 300+ crowd at the Lookout, Scarborough, the album launch was deemed a success. The band now looks forward to touring and promoting Visions in Verse around Australia again in 2006.

Recently the lineup has changed now Richard Clements on vocals and Ben Mazzarol on drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vespers+Descent">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.