There are ten artists by the name of Vex.

1) Vex hailed from South East London / north west kent area and formed in the very early eighties, the 'Sanctuary' 12" and 'It's no crime' on the Mortarhate compalation 'Who?What?Why?When?Where?' were their only releases. 
Sanctuary was issued on Fight Back, a sublabel of Mortarhate, run by the people of Conflict. Vex also played gigs with Conflict, so they were more associated with the anarchist punk scene than the Batcave fair. But contrary to most anarcho-punk bands from that time, they were not influenced by CRASS or Conflict. Soundwise, the band was more inspired by Killing Joke or UK Decay.

Singer Richard Zsigo (known at that time as Scrote) went on to form the band Triumvirate, then travelled for a few years between Glastonbury (UK) and Sedona (U.S. Arizona) performing Celtic folk tales and known as Yanu, a name he uses to this day. Living near Glastonbury, his current project is a blues two-piece called HollowBone.

2) An Up-and-coming Grime artist hailing from South East London, Forest Hill. Known for his hit track "Cheese On Cheese" which he performed with fellow Grime rapper John Wayne. 

3) A political Houston punk band from the early 1980s. Members include lead singer Mike May, and bassist Bob Bitter. 

4) Vex is also the name of a minimalist composer localized in Southern Colorado.

5) A Texas-based death/thrash metal band influenced heavily by 70's progressive rock acts.

6) VEX is a Hardcore Punk band from Spokane, WA and Lewiston, ID featuring ex memebers of wound up and current members of whalelimb and Losing Skin. shitheads.

7) Grindcore band from the Philippines

8) A Belgian black metal band. They have released their self-titled debut Vex in 2011.

9) Vex is the alternative name used by Welsh reality tv star turned rapper Leeroy Reed

10) Vex is a hungarian female punk band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/VEX">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.