There are 2 bands with the same name, a German Black Metal and an Italian Power Metal band (which would tour with Rhapsody over Europe on 2011)

1) The German Black Metal one - man project by F. Nachzehrer - everything (Mensch Schmerz Interaktion, Moriturus/Regnum, Torch of War (Ger), Weltenkampf)

2) Italian band (the photo is from that band):
The Vexillum born in Pisa in September 2004, from an idea of Michele “Firespit” Gasparri (Voice and Guitar) and Luca “Akira” Torelli (Guitar) with the name of Shadow Vexillum. Just after, Alessandro “AC” Cariboni at the Drums and Luca “Liuck” Masi at the Bass Guitar join the band. 

After some concerts they offer to Luca's girlfriend, Rita, to be the female Voice of the band with Michele as the male Voice. With this line up the Shadow Vexillum record their first Demo CD, “Tales” made of 7 tracks, during 2005 winter season. While recording, a new singer, Dario Vallesi, join the band to replace Michele, that preferred to focus only on his Guitar.

In the summer of 2006, Akira and Rita decide to leave the band for personal reasons. Nevertheless, the Shadow Vexillum are still playing live, supported sometimes by the Keyboards of Alex Lucatti (Vision Divine). 

In January 2007 Dario, Firespit, Liuck and AC enter the Head Studio of Prato to record “Neverending Quest”, self-produced EP that features distinguished guest stars from the italian metal scene: for the whole album they have Alex Lucatti's Keyboards (Vision Divine); “Rising from the Ruins” solo battle is between Firespit and Federico Puleri (Vision Divine) and the artbook of the CD is devolved upon Riccardo Iacono (ex Domine). While recording, they take the decision to change the name of the band in Vexillum. 

In February 2007 the band decide to take the Keyboarder Michele “Sink” Sonnino as member of the band. For personal reasons, in June 2007 AC and Liuck decide to leave the band. After a hard research they are replaced with Federico at the Drums and Francesco Saverio “Skywise” Ferraro at the Bass Guitar. At the same time Dario and Firespit offer to the Guitarist Andrea Calvanico to join the band. 

After a year spent together, in November 2008 Federico leaves the band for personal projects. After a while, with the help of Alex Lucatti, the Vexillum meet Francesco Girardi, Drummer for the End of Grace. And it's immediatly feeling. The band come back at work to place the new member in the band and to continue the travel from where they stopped it.

March 2012, Efisio Pregio replaces Francesco Girardi behind the drums. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vexillum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.