as usual in Last FM, we have a bunch of artists named VI


1. a French orthodox black metal band that formed in Paris in 2007. 
It is the main project of Aosoth live guitarist INRVI (guitar, vocals), and also features fellow Aosoth member BST on bass and drummer Blastum. Their band name refers to the sixth trumpet in Biblical scripture. They released their debut EP De Praestigiis Daemonum in March 2008, and their full-length album De Praestigiis Angelorum in September 2015. They also released the split EP Angels Falling Down with Aosoth in August 2010. They will release a split EP with The Order of Apollyon and Temple of Baal in March 2016, as well as a remastered version of their debut EP on vinyl. The band has stated they will never perform live.

2. VI is a Metal band from Toronto Ontario Canada formed in 2014.
VI is a Melodic Death Metal band formed by guitarist Derryl Vi and vocalist Justin Ziadeh. Not knowing the results would be favorable, the band recorded their first demo entitled "Descend Into Madness".  
As the band progressed through 2015 and writing conceptual lyrics, 2 brand new songs were written for the next EP Harakiri. The title itself landed in Toontrack's Metal Month 2015 and brought on board new fans outside of their home base. It would take almost a year preparing and finalizing new songs. 
The band released their debut album "The Art Of Violence" in May 2017 which again brought the attention of independent labels and radio play in Europe. 
In summer 2018 Derryl Vi would be featured on Samm Dunn’s “Shredders of Metal” which brought a newer audience and work started for their follow up album. Knowing a new audience was present, a new single “8213” was released which brought thrash elements while maintaining the melodic death metal the band was known for.
During the summer of 2018 the album was entitled Chaos Immortal. The single “End of Days” was released and featured on Banger TV’s episode “Most Anticipated Metal Albums 2019.
In the Summer of 2019 Derryl Vi did collaborate with Loubelle Luis of Zeno Devata and would release two brand new songs Event Horizon and Soul Of Perdition. 
Both songs proved to be another success continuing the Melodic Death / Thrash sound VI is known for.

3.Vi was a Danish hardcore punk band from Århus, active in the 80s. UK label Looney Tunes released a 7" called "The Triumph of Death" in 1986, and they appeared on several compilations like the Noget På Dansk 7", the 1984 The 3rd LP and the Extreme Noise 1 cassette.
 
4.Vi (aka Beautiful)
Chicago based MC Vi (rhymes with why) is poised to bring the soul back into rap & Hip-Hop with his debut album, SUPPOSED 2 BE through Hustler Music due out soon. Vi grew up listening to musical greats such as Al Green, James Brown and Lenny Williams, making this versatile MC a natural at composing passionate lyrical barbs that mesh effortlessly with his sonically moving tracks. The end result is what he dubs, hustler music.

Raised in the Windy City's infamous Altgeld Gardens (also known as the Wild Hundreds), Vi admits to getting caught up in the gang and drug lifestyles that dominated his neighborhood. But ultimately, he had to make a decision between the streets and his future. After narrowly escaping a 25-year prison stretch, the former high school point guard & Jackson State University student realized that it was time for a change, which led to Vi's current hustle, music.

Traveling the country to promote his music, Vi continued to prove himself as a lyricist and has garnered the respect of many of his peers, which included deceased TLC member Lisa "Left Eye" Lopes, whom he met while in Atlanta as a teenager in 96. In fact, Vi earned his Beautiful alias after Lopes used the term to describe his style and flow. He went on to be featured on records with everyone from Killer Mike to Reakwon, the Leela James video "Music" as well as shooting his own video "Hurta". While in Los Angeles Vi hooked up with Hip-Hop legend KRS-ONE who asked Vi to be featured on the title song "The MC" for The MC documentary for Quincy Jones QD3 Entertainment, in stores now. Vi has also had his music featured on the small screen in the HBO smash hit Entourage and the straight to DVD movie Gas and County General.

With his debut album SUPPOSED 2 BE, Vi is creating a musical diary of sorts; the album is openly honest and personal, touching on matters as close to the heart as the absence of his father and dealing with haters who only come around when things are good. But this record doesn't revolve solely around dark matters of the heart as Vi also caters to the street corners of America and his admiration for women.

The buzz about Vi is building and this MC is about to explode. Aside from his music, Vi is in production on a patented shoe accessory, which is sure to be seen on all the hottest 09 sneakers.

He currently resides full time in Chicago.

5."vi" are a swedish post-metal band with black metal influences. Having released just a 3 song selftitled EP. Apparently making no efforts to promote it except make it available for free download, the band consists of - gryth, baier, kindlund, danielsen. The myspace is - http://www.myspace.com/vi2006

6.VI is an Ottawa born, Canadian pop singer. Her debut EP, "Blackwater," was released in February of 2018.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vi">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.