Two years after the release of their critically-acclaimed album Say Something, Brooklyn’s indie pop quartet Via Audio releases their sophomore opus, Animalore, a melting pot collection of eccentric sounds- songs infused with fairy tales, folklore, science fiction, romance, seduction, and adventure.   
Via Audio was formed in 2003 in between classes at the infamous Berklee College of Music in Boston.  After releasing a self-titled EP on the small independent Kill Normal Records in 2004, the band first garnered attention when Death Cab for Cutie’s guitarist Chris Walla dubbed them his “new favorite band,” in his column for Under the Radar Magazine.   
They soon after caught the attention of Spoon drummer Jim Eno, who would become their longtime producer, collaborator and comrade.  With Eno’s help behind the board, Via Audio released their first full-length, Say Something, in 2007 on California-based indie label Sidecho Records.  Pitchfork Media described Say Something as having “such a beautiful gloss over everything that it sticks, hurts, and feels delicious" and the album received accolades from Spin, Nylon, Under the Radar, Alternative Press, theTripwire, and Stereogum, among others.  The band has since toured the U.S. and Japan alongside the likes of Spoon, White Rabbits, Someone Still Loves You Boris Yeltsin, Ha Ha Tonka, and Modern Skirts, making appearances at the South By Southwest, Monolith, and CMJ festivals. 
Shutting themselves up again in Eno’s Austin, Texas home studio in 2009, the group tackled their latest songbook- the lo-fi electronics of “Digital,” the soul-infused funk of “Goldrush,” the ethereal surf-lament of “Wanted,” the glittery R&B pop of “Babies”- as Eno carefully and artfully crafted different sonic palettes for each unique song on Animalore.  The result is an album that plays like a pop-up book for adults, bursting with vivid colors and secret corridors at the turn of every page. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Via+Audio">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.