There are four artists with this name:

1) Vibe (바이브) is a Korean R&B group. Their name means "a vibration felt from the heart" which is a perfect description of their R&B ballads. They released their volume 1 "Afterglow" in 2002. The title track "Promise U", was a hit as it was a soulful ballad that had a smooth rap which flowed quite well in the song. In 2003, the group released their volume 2 "Do U Remember" with the same style of ballads. Though the group faced some changes as the rapper left and Vibe became a male duo. In 2006, Vibe released their Volume 3, "Re-Feel". The title track "Geu namja, geu yeoja" (That Man, That Woman) features female singer Kang Hye Jin and was a big hit.


2) Vibe (a metal band from Bangladesh) Melodious, powerful, energetic, diverse and dynamic in their own words, Vibe's music is just these, and something unique. Their debut release, “Chena Jogot” a few weeks before Eid has already scored a positive appraisal from the listeners and critics. They've rocked the crowd at live performances, and touched the listeners with their singles in mixed albums. close and personal with Vibe for some exclusive insight into their music. Shuddho and Turjo came up with the title, and thought that it would best serve the idea behind forming the band. The word 'vibe' literally means a distinctive emotional atmosphere, sensed intuitively. The band's goal was to generate that distinctive atmosphere for the listeners of today and tomorrow. Vibe still remains focused on maintaining that unique environment for the lovers of music, by means of their music. The band was officially formed in 2001 with its original line-up consisting of Shuddho Fuad Sadi, Sabbir Hossain Turjo, Mahjuj Jasim Sourav, Saber Ahmed Khan and Wali Md Akbar. In 2002, Sourav left the band and Tanvir took over his place in 2003. In 2004, the band took on Mashfiq, shortly after Tanvir left. The final change in line-up took place on July 2005, when the band took on Saleh Hasan Oni. The final line-up is Shuddho Fuad Sadi (vocals/guitars), Sabbir Hossain Turjo (drums), Saber Ahmed Khan (bass), Saleh Hasan Oni (guitars) and Wali Md Akbar (keyboards). You could say hybrid Metal and rock. From one extreme to the other: heavy metal to rock ballads. Melody is the band's major concern, be it metal or soft rock. In short, Vibe can be classified into the genres: 'Heavy/Thrash/Speed Metal' and 'Slow/Soft Rock.'


3) A demoscene artist also known as Silent Owl (Sergey Eybog)


4) A French R&B and rap artist, famous for his work with Blackstreet and Mad K <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vibe">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.