VIBRION started back in ´89 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and two years later, their first demo ¨Erradicated Life¨ was recorded containing 5 tracks of some mixture between Grind, Hardcore and Death Metal. It was professionally recorded on a 24 track studio and was very well received in their own country selling over 1100 copies in a short time. This helped the band to catch the attention from several labels form abroad and it was a Swiss label called WITCHHUNT RECORDS which offered them to press their demo on a 7¨EP. After being released the EP in Europe in Spring ´93, two songs were also featured on a NUCLEAR BLAST compilation CD called GRINDCORE COMPILATION. The band have also been featured in various other smaller compilations and in many fanzines and magazines over the world making the first demo a very researched collection's piece in the underground. The line up was Luis Guardamagna (vocals-guitar), Fabian Fernandez (bass), Guillermo Giusti -after replaced by Alex Mangiacavalli- (lead guitar) and Gustavo Guardamagna (drums). The brothers Guardamagna used the last name (Cederborg) of their grandmother as a tribute to her. During their first years, VIBRION started playing many gigs in Buenos Aires and surroundings, later in the whole Argentina as well as in Uruguay and Bolivia. In April of the same year, their most important gig was played supporting KREATOR in front of 2500 people. In '94 and '95, the band did European tours in Belgium, France, Spain, Germany, Holland, Finland and Switzerland. They released their first full album "Diseased" in 1995. VIBRION's 1997 second album 'Closed Frontiers' was recorded in the Sunlight's Studios in Stockholm and included a cover version of AGNOSTIC FRONT's 'Toxic Shock'. By 2002 the band line up had completely transformed with only Luis Guardamagna (Luis Cederborg) surviving. Relocated in Belgium, new personnel would include guitarist Eric Renwart, bassist Roland Wislet and drummer Charles de Croix. Their last work dates from 2002 and it's a single called "Instinct" with four new songs, which shows a new musical approach of the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vibrion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.