There are multiple bands called Victimizer.
1. Death Metal band since 1996 (Nijmegen, the Netherlands
2. Metal? band (Germany)
3. Thrash Metal from Denmark.

VICTIMIZER from Nijmegen Holland, plays metal. Death, Black, Thrash, you hear what you want to hear. They do not care and it has always been this way since 1996. A good share of line up changes caused the delay of their first full length “DIVIDED AS ONE” which was unleashed upon mankind September 27th 2003. Nevertheless, they always made sure there was a solid line up when it was time to hit the stage. 

During those first years they opened for bands like DISHARMONIC ORCHESTRA, LAST DAYS OF HUMANITY, NO RETURN, INHUME, ALTAR, ASPHYX, and DEATH SQUAD. Mostly bigger bands from the European underground. In 2000 they won the finals of “de Roos van Nijmegen” and were voted best band by the audience, Played numerous of gigs along with a spot on the bill of HUNTENPOP. Again some more line up changes in 2001. However, they refused to throw in the towel. 

Sacha - Guitar, Richard - Guitar, Romeo - Drums and Chris - Bass decided to continue with the four of them and the vocals became a split task for both guitarists. But after two years the idea of a front man became increasingly appealing. After a brief search in March 2005, Niels was introduced into the band and after three rehearsals they played their first gig. In April 2007 they recorded the EP “THE SPIRAL DOWN" at "HARROW STUDIO" and released it the 10th of June supporting LENG.TCHE and metal legends IMMOLATION and KRISIUN at Doornroosje Nijmegen. The show was a huge success, and the crowd received the new tracks with open arms. 
One month later the band was the closing act on the last day of the Zomerfeesten Hollands biggest free music festival. Performing for a crowd of 2500 people.. an absolute honour! 
During October and November of 2007 they promoted their newborn all through holland together with DEATH SQUAD and APOCRYPHA. 

An unfortunate event took place when during that tour Sacha was brought to the intensive care with major head trauma, which lead to a huge setback for the VICTIMIZER family. The outcome of that event was that Sacha was unable to continue that thing he loved most, and what he created.. VICTIMIZER. As founding father he passed the torch on to the rest of VICTIMIZER and their new family member Andrew. 

At 2008 TO HELLFEST they presented their new line up and brought the news to the crowd and fans of VICTIMIZER which led to a complete silence in the venue... after the speech during the VICTIMIZER performance there was a huge response giving credit to all the years of dedication, heart and soul that Sacha has givin VICTIMIZER through out the 12 years of service! The next song that they played was a new one and the last song that Sacha worked on called "For what matters now"... A track that from now on will have a special meaning for the band. 

The following shows in 2008 they played with bands like EXCREMENTORY GRINDFUCKERS, HOUWITSER, ENTOMBED, DETONATION, and the last show of that turbulent year with the dutch allstars from HAIL OF BULLETS at the GMT fest. 

2009 was again a great year for VICTIMIZER, mostly they played the festivals. To name just a few; MUSIC AGAINST CANCER, STONEHENGE, SPRINGSTOF, AALTJESROCK and a spot on the Funural Nation tour with VADER, MARDUK, SUPREME PAIN, DEVIOUS at the new Atak venue in Enschedeath!! 

Between the busy schedeule of playing shows, the boys found the time to create 8 new tracks for the upcoming CD/LP Tales Of Loss And New Found Serenity. 2009 also was that VICTIMIZER was signed by DEITY DOWN RECORDS 

Future plans/schedeules are; 

April/May - Recording at Split Second Studio 

June - Off to Sweden Mix and Mastering At Unisound Studio 

Aug. - Release Tales Of Loss And New Found Serenity. 

COMING TO A STAGE NEAR U!!

Current line up
Romeo gerrits -   Drums
Rich Sastra -  ( The Bullhammers) Guitar
Andrew van der Schaft  - Guitar
Chris Rossal -  Bass



2. Victimizer (Germany)
Victimizer was formed during Wacken 2000, the line up was: J.Killheiler (vocals) DR.Rape (guitar) and C.Molestor (Drums). In oct. 2000 we recorded our first reh/demo "Skullfucked by Victimizer" lim. to only 20 (Stafa org. re-released this tape in 242 copies in may 2001). Suicide Machine joined this recording on session lead guitar. For some time nothing happened, besides writing new trax, but during feb. 2001 Snuff joined on drums and this improved the sound very much and new powerful metal anthems were created.

In the summer of 2001 Victimizer recorded the "Unholy banners of war" demo, this demo really defined our style and it received great response worldwide, and gave us a deal for a 7ep on Horror Rec. By the end of 2001 we played our debut gig, at a legendary metal friend´ 40 year birthday party, it went down chaotic, raw and drunken as hell. Right before a planned gig in Sweden in early 2002 the faggot formerly known as Snuff, quit the band to play hippie funk. To this day we hope he will get aids from his African gay lover. C.Molestor soon jumped the boat as well having wimped out and betraying the underground. For a while nothing happened besides promoting the band and writing new songs.

The summer of 2002 we started rehearsing with L.Groth on drums and shortly after we started recording the drums for the 7" ep. During this recording J.Killheiler ended up in the hospital for some time and completely lost his voice for some months. After recovering, the guitars and vocals were recorded for the EP.
Time passed and passed and nothing really happened besides interviews and recording of a track for a Nunslaughter tribute. DR Rape also showed a lot of signs of so called maturing (read: wimp out) and after the release of the "Communist Crusher" 7" ep in dec. 2003, J.killheiler decided to fire L.Groth (due to some internal conflicts and bad attitude), and also agreed with DR Rape that he should step down from his task.

In early 2004 J.killheiler reformed the band with some talented people and close friends, namely: MR Born to Loose (Exekrator) on guitar, Azter (Denial of God) on bass, and soon Atziluth (Blachorned) joined the ranks on drums. This line up is by far the best and most productive to date. The first release featuring this line up was a split reh/tape with US Devil metal masters Nunslaughter (This one was also released on LP by Ancient Darkness Prod). A deal was made with Australian Apocalyptor, but they soon decided to cut down on the label activities, therefore the band chose to look for a deal elsewhere. Before the band even started looking for a new label we got an offer from the supreme US label Hells Headbangers and a deal for 2 albums was made. The first release came out in the end of 2005 in form of the “Unholy Banners of Victimizer” LP containing the 2001 demo in a re-mastered version as well as 4 previously unreleased songs from old sessions and also a brand new track.
2005 also saw the band playing quite a few gigs in Denmark and Europe with bands such as Pentacle, Strychnos, Ghastly and Necrovation. Deathstrike Records also released a 4 way split LP with Victimizer/Eternal Pain/Betrayed and Farscape in very late 2005.
Early 2006 saw Victimizer continuing their unholy speed metal crusade including several live attacks and recording 4 tracks for an upcoming split album with Brazilian speed metal kings Sodomizer and also a CD version of the “Unholy Banners of Victimizer” was unleashed by Warfuck Records (Columbia).
Currently the band is planning a few selected live rapes such as the “Bounded by Blood” festival in Itzehoe (Germany) with great hordes such as: Abysmal Grief, Toxic Holocaust, Suicidal Winds, Blood Thirsty Demons and more. Most importantly, the band is very focused on composing of our yet untitled full length LP /CD to be unleashed by the unholy label Hells Headbangers in late 2006. The recording is scheduled for fall 2006, expect nothing less than furious thrashing speed metal madness that will pulverize your necks and make your ears bleed.

REAP THE NUCLEAR WHIRLWINDS!!
J. Killheiler May 2006  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Victimizer">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.