It all started in September 2004, when Victim Yield was formed. Bojan Nikolovski-Brko (guitars) and Viktor Kuzmanovski (drums) were fed up waiting something to happen in their life, so they decided to form a band for a local gig here in Kumanovo. They never realized what was about to happen next. They gathered Branislav Dimkovski (guitars) and they decided to play death metal, a new wave for our underground with different musical concept. Two weeks more or less they gathered Bojan Jovanovski (vocals) and Miroslav Denkovski (bass) and started doing rehearsals. Finally Victim Yield was formed.

Now their first gig was on 30 January 2005 in the night club Hacienda with Point Blank(Sk) and Diverge(Ku). They also played on Rock-Fest in Skopje, they were elected for the final evening and of course played in the Rock-Fest Finals 2005. Now the final evening was one best gigs they have performed on so far, although the sound wasn’t that OK. The next gig was organized by “Mirakuli na Grozomorata” crew took place in Skopje again. They played with Embriotomy, Vinterthrone and Tank Warning Net. “If the final evening was one the best gigs we had, then definitely Extreme Metal Masquerade was the best ever.” – said Brko. Soon they played on Easter Rock-Fest in Skopje, one local gig and in Stip.

So far they recorded a demo called “Sentenced to live”. They recorded it with full support in production and mixing by Filip-Kirk “Vortex Multimedia”. “We haven’t bought a single beer for Kirk so far, we are still waiting for the promotion!” - jokes Mimco.

Their time is yet to come.A band called Dedicated for Life invited Victim Yield to take part on their album promotional concert. After that event they became very good friends with the guys and had more than 10 gigs together.

By this time Victim Yield have promoted their second unofficial demo which appeared to distribute as an internet release. The demo was called "Voice of Consciousness". It was more strenghtened material and it defined their style.

Victim Yield had performed on many gigs, festivals and concerts in the following period of 2006-07 in many cities in Macedonia. The most remarkable events to mention are "Plagij.at turns 1" in Skopje and W.O.A. Metal Battle also in Skopje.

By this time Victim Yield had changed their styyle in to more tech death metal and engaged little brutal influences. They are currently working on their full lenght album.

In January 2008, their drummer Viktor left the band because of personal and health problems. A new drummer fulfilled his place - Dragan Teodosiev from Arcanum. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Victim+Yield">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.