THE TALE

Over a hundred years ago our ancestors founded The Lodge, they called it “V” to signify their attitude to Victorian times, visual beauty and… vampirism that gave them the power to resist the devouring time. Now we are the keepers of V-Lodge. In these weird times when noble ideas turned into dust and people look hopelessly at the disenchanted reality, we’ll give you the key to the world where you’ll experience something extraordinary, where you’ll need no dreams to become someone unique, where you’ll uncover forces able to change reality. We believe that our lives can be as beautiful as worlds of imagination, as our dreams. So that is who we believe we are – aristocrats of the spirit! Every day we have to dress, speak and behave like average men, but we only pretend… now it is time of change, time when we gather to resist mediocrity…
VICTORIANS – Aristocrats’ Symphony - a band from Poland, formed in 2010. Since then, the band has a strong emphasis on the visual side of its work. Victorians’ style is the synthesis of symphonic orchestrations, semi-operatic vocals, heavy guitars and lyrics that are full of passion and power. Victorians is attempt to make the art of life and realize dreams and fantasies.

Once a priestess hailing the name of Noxiferis she became a goddess of her own! Invincible she escaped from the claws of Inferno, fulfilled the revenge on her assassins and becamed a demigod – a goddess! She is the one that reaches out and she opens the gates to ones dreams. She lets the brave pass the rite through thorns to the mountain top with a palace – a gate to the world of love, joy and fulfillment. She is the creation; the power that transforms ashes into vital gardens.

No one is certain for sure what does V. stand for. Some say its a mysterious V mark from the past. A wound inflicted by V.’s deadly enemy just before the death which was a revenge for killing V.’s parents? Maybe it’s a statement of alignment to its beloved eternal darkness which is also his curse and deepest suffering as a Vampire? A verbalisation of the Visuality of its appearance which is swift and majestic at the same time? A challenge set in forth to be Victorious upon the powerful fatum? A childish sign of its favourite colour which is Violet? An indication to be Versus in spite of all? An attribute of being Vivid? Or maybe its just a shortening of a real name. Those that are close to V.’s just call it Vi.

No superpowers only innate charm, knowledge and faith to change reality. He’s a wanderer looking for the unique experience and a warm blood. In his heart equally exist the great enthusiasm and melancholy.

The last one who joined V-Lodge. He is the first one to shake the ground and move the skies! His never ending stream of positive energy and constructive criticism is as loud as his strokes! He is at once the most dark and light character between our ranks. He is the one that creates all the beats and makes sure that no one soul stays untouched by our rhythms! He turns up the rate to warm your blood as it tastes better hot!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Victorians+-+Aristocrats%27+Symphony">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.