There are several artists with this name.

1. Victim was a punk band formed in 1977 in Belfast, Ireland that later relocated to Manchester, England in 1979. They disbanded in 1986. The band released their first 7" vinyl record on the legendary "Good Vibrations "record label in 1978.  Within the next  couple of years the band released another two 7" singles "Why Are Fire Engines Red" and "The Teenage"  

2. . Victim is a hardcore band out of Virginia Beach, Virginia.
They formed in 2002 but their final show was held in 2008.

3.  Victim is also the name of the Croatian progressive melodic black metal band / project, formed in Split, Croatia, in 2005 by the keyboardist and the main songwriter Bruno Matijašević (Magnolija, Đubrivo, Lokva).
They have recorded one demo with 8 songs - Victim, in 2006.
The band is currently preparing new material.
Line-up

Ivan Srzić (Magnolija) - bass
Bruno Matijašević - keyboards
Marin Koceić (Koziak, Korpiko, Dr. Evil, ex-Đubrivo) - drums
Tomo Margan - vocals, rhythm guitar
Ivana Gospodnetić (Magnolija) - female vocals
Darko Grubišić Đubrivo, Stimulans - lead guitar:

4. Victim was a hard rock band from Columbus, OH. They released three LPs before disbanding several years ago.

5. Victim was a heavy metal band from San Diego, California that released two albums, "Power Hungry" and "DMN." They broke up after the release of "DMN."

6. ViCTiM is a Dutch punkrock band. They existed for 7 years(2000-2007) and played more than 70 live shows in the Netherlands and Belgium, with amongst others: Intwine, Epica, Absynthe Minded, Against Time, Gomer Pyle, Fusk, Mono, Skycaptain, San Andreas, Last Sunset.

7. Victim or also knows as A Judgement for Victim is an indonesian post hardcore/experimental. Victim was formed March 12, 2009. Victim is a revolution from the foul OF DADDY formed May 3, 2008 due to a change of line-up personnel. 

Victim was originally formed with the line-up: Ozi (vocals), Pian (guitar), Wedda (guitar), Opie (bass), Upi (drums), at the time that Victim terinfluence with bands Metal, Trash Metal, Death Metal like , Trivium, Bullet For My Valentine, AS Blood Runs Black, Bring Me The Horizon, etc.. 

Victim first entered a recording studio called PSOUND RECORD a 3 song pack with the hit single "Remind me OF YOU". Victim debut of events in Jakarta and Bekasi METAL until August 2009. But with over time, the victim in crisis due to Wedda (guitar) resigned due to work, and followed Upi that no other siblings Ozi (vocals) due to continued study outside of town and could not divide their time. 

Then position Wedda on guitar was replaced by a former manager Uddo foul OF DADDY and drum position was replaced by Raka from Clown Tears. But the crisis did not come here alone, Victim vacuum for 2 months, and during the 2 months that changed the concept of genre victim initially be POST HARDCORE METAL / EXPERIMENTAL / TECHNO that influence by Asking Alexandria, Attack Attack!, The Devil Wears Prada, We Butter The Bread With Butter, Enter Shikari, is because there are additional line-up of Rio on the Synthesizer. 

After a vacuum of 2 months, Victim was moved in the indie music events. Not only in Jakarta and Bekasi, but also reaching the Bogor & Bandung. Then the victim has worked with Shocking STYLE BUZZ and this is a pretty good movement who felt victim after the vacuum. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Victim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.