1) Victory’s music is a fusion between Soul music and Folk Music. She was raised in Detroit before moving to New Jersey at age twelve. Whether Victory is performing classics or original compositions, she has a way of tailoring each song with her voice and guitar to fit her unique style. Some people say that Victory is in the lane of Tracy Chapman, Roberta Flack, and Nina Simone. But beyond those three, Victory brings an entirely new youthful element to the music world, an indescribable spiritual depth mixed with her youthful interpretation of sound influencing her artistic expressions. Moreover, Victory colors a lot of her musical arrangements with rich jazz chords as she is rooted and grounded in Jazz tradition.

2) Victory was formed in Hanover, Germany  in 1984 from the remnants of the band Fargo. Apart from bass player Peter Knorn, there were  two guitarists, Tommy Newton and John Lockton, as well as drummer Bernie Van of Graaf forming the group. After they originally worked with singer Pedro Schemm - after a small interlude with the later Thunderhead shouter Ted Pullit - the singer Charlie Huhn joined, who had formerly played with  Gary Moore and Ted Nugent. By recommendation of Scorpions guitarist Rudolph Schenker  the band was guided by David Krebs'  (of Scorpions and Aerosmith fame ) management. 

3) Victory is a hardcore band from southern New Hampshire.  They were formed in 2005 and played together for two years.  They recorded a demo of 2 songs with most notable song being "breaker".  They got a big fan base following and played shows in the boston area as well as the local new hampshire venues.  They later went onto record a 5 song ep.  Right after being recorded the band broke up. 

4) Victory is the music project of Los Angeles-based multi-instrumentalist Robert Fleming who produces new songs that are at once fresh, familiar and focused.   ‘Demonstrations’ was the first offering from Victory, a 7-song EP self-released in September 2011 and his first full length is set to see the light in April 23rd, 2013.  Victory crafts a sound that is both a throw-back to psychedelic 60′s British rock as well as an homage to today’s thriving independent music scene.

5) Victory hail from Minneapolis and are formed from ex-members of Eightysixed, Pist & Broke, Subversives and The Virgin Whores. The collective experience of the members fit together well and gives off a chemistry that reflects in the tightness of Victory’s sound. Victory delivers straight up American Oi! like a steel toe to the face. Victory’s hard edged sound is fueled by lyrics based on the experiences of afghan war veteran and front man Dan and the bands struggles with being working class in a crumbling economy. Very promising debut EP ''Laced Up'' contains four juicy street punk tracks and there’s no dead weight.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Victory">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.