videohippos are Kevin O'Meara and Jim Triplett and their various machines.  They originated in Washingon DC in late 2004.  Soon after, they settled in Baltimore, Maryland where they often teamed up with the Wham City collective, known for artists such as Dan Deacon, Future Islands, Ed Schrader, Santa Dads, OCDJ, Ponytail, Dina Kelberman, Lizz King, and many others.  Countless shows, tours, and collaborations with many of these artists would follow.  Their live performances feature O'Meara's video projections from his drumset, singer/guitarist Triplett's awkwardly motionless stage presence, and music engulfing an audience.

O'Meara was born in Maryland and enjoys tree-climbing, playing the electric bass and vibraphone, deathwish-biking, smile-faking, and copyright-infringing, among other hobbies.  Triplett was born in Mississippi and enjoys songwriting, timelessness, humor, and concentrated expressions of the soul. Both met while in highschool and were members of the band Kanovanik.  

Videohippos debut album, Unbeast the Leash, was released in 2007 to positive reviews, including a 7.7 from Pitchfork, which compared them to My Bloody Valentine by noting their ability to sound "a part of [their] scene and completely contrary to it." 

Following Unbeast The Leash was a split album with Sewn Leather, released on Tater Junction.  Each Videohippos track featured a collaboration with a different Baltimore music artist (DJ Dog Dick, Teeth Mountain, and Ed Schrader).

After years of performing as a two piece, late 2009 saw the introduction of Benny Boeldt (keyboards) and Jared Paolini (bass guitar) to the band.  A handful of shows and a tour later, Videohippos apparently ended with a final show in Baltimore at the CopyCat Annex in late March 2010.

Triplett has since directed his song writing/recording efforts towards a new project called Romantic States. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/videohippos">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.