Vidharr is a Black Metal band from Rome, Italy founded in 2004 by Mørke & Reim as a doom project; however due to musical progression and influence they started composing Black Metal.

In the summer of 2005 Vidharr recorded their first official demo entitled "Rising From Abyss" at Etruria Studio. The demo was very successful, which would later become the reason for the re-recording "Risen From Abyss". Though following the demo's release formation changes occurred within the band. After several attempts of finding replacements the band finally reached a stable and more serious line-up, which resulted in the band going for a more dynamic approach of songwriting.

2006 saw Vidharr performing at many shows, sharing stages with various underground bands as well as highly acclaimed Black Metal outfits such as Carpathian Forest, Forgotten Tomb, Nargaroth & Impaled Nazarene etc.

In 2007 they continued performing around Italy under the same line-up and recorded 3 tracks for a SPLIT-CD entitled "The Army of Chaos" with Sturmkaiser (released through War Arts Productions). The band maintained its constant performances for the rest of the year till Fall when its members entered the studio once more to record their first full-length album entitled "Eclipse"; which was released much later through Helvete.ru in April 2009...

Eclipse features Paolo Pieri (Malfeitor, Hour Of Penance) as lead vocalist, as well as guest vocalist appearances from M. Fabban (Aborym, Malfeitor) & Svafnir (Sturmkaiser, Draugr).

In 2008 Vidharr proceeded with their performing schedule, this time around pushing their new material from "Eclipse" into their live shows.
Later, the show alongside Rotting Christ marked the end of the band's live performances under this line-up.

In the same year, co-founding member Reim, decided to quit the band to pursue other interests. Following another ongoing search for a new lead vocalist and a new rhythm guitarist Sho & Haemon joined the band. Vidharr spent the following years writing new material and performing at various festivals alongside bands such as Shining (SWE).

Eventually in 2010 individual musical progression and taste caused conflicts amongst the members, as there were growing musical disagreements within in the band. After the fall-out Mørke & Andras remained in the band to pursue what they had set out to do since day one.

Vidharr's second Full-Length album "Cryo" is out through "Maa Productions" and features Atum (Divine Codex, Setherial) as drummer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vidharr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.