There are six artists called Vienna. 

(1) A Belgian Poppunk/punkrock group. Still active

The credo 'hard work pays off' holds more truth than ever with Belgian youngsters Vienna. After releasing their debut-EP entitled Arrows in 2010 -a collection of powerpop songs that landed them nationwide attention, spots on plenty of Belgium's stages and a record deal with SonicAngel- Vienna finally its full length "One Heart At A Time"in 2012, quickly followed by their self-titled EP in 2013.
https://www.facebook.com/wearevienna
https://www.youtube.com/user/wearevienna
The momentum started to build over the spring/summer of 2010 after releasing Arrows. The band played tons of shows all over Belgium and shared stages with many international acts. When the dust from the summer run settled down, the band went straight into the studio to record a cover of Justin Bieber's Eenie Meenie, releasing it and solidifying their position as hot new act. The song got nationwide attention and was voted in TMF's "Dag Top 5" for 5 consecutive weeks, 2 weeks on number 1. Due to this success Vienna got noticed by SonicAngel, a record label that’s built around the crowdfunding principle. The band collected all the necessary funds within weeks and started to work on their debut album. 
In the meanwhile, the band kept on playing every possible show. They won a "Best Song" award at the Exposure Music Awards, which will allow them to play a few shows in London soon. Vienna recorded their first full length ‘One Heart At A Time’ in Outhouse Studios in Reading with John Mitchell and Ben Humphreys. Both seasoned vets in the trade having worked with You Me At Six, Bullet For My Valentine and Enter Shikari, the band knew this was a good choice. The band released their first single of the album called "Lonely Shore" in september 2011, leading to more highlights: supporting Avril Lavigne in a sold out Vorst-Nationaal and airplay on national radio and television to name a few.
After the release ‘One Heart At A Time’ Vienna toured Belgium and the Netherlands to promote their album. They played Groezrock in April and toured the Netherlands for a second time in the fall of 2012. With their second single ‘One Heart At A Time’ they didn’t only reach the Belgian radio and television, but the single was also released in Italy gaining airplay on national radio and television.
In the meanwhile the band continued writing new stuff. This resulted in a 6-track self-titled EP, which has been released on March 22nd 2013. The music video for ‘Resurrection’, the first single coming from their self-titled EP, gained immediate airplay on national television. Having tons of shows added to their giglist, the future keeps looking bright for this hard working band. 

(2) Vienna was formed by veteran Austrian session keyboardist and producer (Frank Zappa, etc.) Peter Wolf as a vehicle for his wife, singer Ina Wolf. One album was released under the Vienna name, 1987's Guess What? The single was Talking With The Heart whose innovative video still receives airplay on Vh-1 Classic in the U.S.  As a producer, Wolf worked with Starship, Wang Chung, Paul Young, Escape Club, Go West, Pointer Sisters, Big Country, DeBarge, Grace Slick, Natalie Cole, Cliff Richard, Oleta Adams, and Foreigner

(3) Vienna is a Japanese prog/hard rock band. Their first album "Overture"  was published in 1988. They made two albums and one live cd before they split. In 1998 vienna starts a come back with a new drummer. Their new album "Unknown" was published.

Vienna are: Yukihiro "Chachamaru" Fujimura (Vocals, Guitar), Toshimi Nagai (Bass) and Kozo Suganuma (drums, percussions)

First group's drummer was Ryuichi Nishi. Yuhikiro and Toshimi are know also from band Ded Chaplin and from early Gerard's stuff (now band is playing in different line-up).

(4) Vienna are an indie acoustic rock band based out of Baltimore, Maryland. Vienna are John Cotter and Matt Wood. The duo first collaborated in 2002, writing songs together and performing at small venues. Their self-recorded first album which was released on May 13, 2006. Vienna's lyrics come from personal experiences and observations. As Matt says, "We write what we know." The songs are about life, truth, and relationships. Death, love, and exposing lies. In November 2006, Vienna officially disbanded, as John Cotter's time and energy were redirected toward The Apathy Eulogy.

In Vienna's music you will definitely hear influences of Dashboard Confessional, Early November, Mineral, Ida, Minus the Bear, Bright Eyes, Owen, Elliott Smith. You might hear influences of Sunny Day Real Estate, American Football, John Mayer, Smashing Pumpkins, Chevelle, Incubus, the Beatles, Thursday, Bjork, The Velvet Underground.

John Cotter started playing guitar at the age of 16. His first attempt at singing/writing music was with Alissa Robison in 1997; They wrote a few songs together. John recorded a twelve song solo album in Summer 2000 with the recording help of Chris Wilson and Jason Rundell. John currently writes and records solo music but his main focus is The Apathy Eulogy.

Matt Wood played bass for a band called Many Sparrows. They played a few gigs, never recorded. The band split up in 2002.

John and Matt met at Loch Raven High School Young Life through mutual friends. Matt asked John if he wanted to form a band and so they did. The name, Vienna, was chosen because Vienna is a city in Austria which many consider the birthplace of classical music.

(5) French Synthpop act (Pour ne pas me toucher 7'')



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vienna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.