There are multiple artists tracked as “Vietah” on Last.fm

1. A black metal group of Belarus. 
Autumnal wetness, forest darkness, the fog lays on turned black grass by gray flakes, dank cold… Only the old moon shines by dead light, motionlessly… Slowly striding, all the living goes away to the black thicket, following the call of death and decrees of nature, dragging out to the gloomy kingdom of sorrow… 

VIETAH - one-men band from Belarus. The bend was formed in 2002 year and appears as a result of lonesome creative searching for, by the personality, hiding under the name Antarctis. In 2006-2007 years it was recorded a debut album "Zorny Maroz" self-possessed in Atmospheric Black Metal style, containing 5 compositions with lyrics in belarussian language. In the beginning of 2008 year the album was released at Stygian Crypt Productions in CD format.

Vietah [ve'tah] - Old Moon from Belarusian language.

Official website: 
http://www.vietah.com/

2. A folk group of Belarus. 
Belarusian folk music band «Vietah» (local name of waning moon) started by Viachaslau Kalatsei in 1997 was planned as a band of duda (a kind of bagpipe) music. The band consists of professional musicians and has its own singing children’s fellow-band. It also cooperates with Tatiana Pladunova’s ensemble of song and dance «Vieras». Recently the members of both collectives have been helping to the «Vietah» founders even more actively. So, now they are not only disciples of folk culture movement but rather colleagues of «Vietah».

The band’s repertoire, that is based not only on sound or video recordings performed by the representatives of the old traditions but on out-of town expeditions as well, is diverse: calendar and working songs, duda and bow music, games, ceremonies and dances of northern, western and center Belarus. 

By its music style «Vietah» is a representative of so-called “post-folk” music movement, a branch of the main rural culture existing in the way of city-life. Regularly the band together with the oldest rural representatives of traditions and local inhabitants of the same age with the musicians celebrate «The Summer Cross holiday» (Easter, Kupalle, Dziady, Kalyada). Since 2001 three-four times a year (on the eve of the main folk holidays) «Vietah» gives a great duda music dancing party that takes place in one of the Minsk clubs (this event is known by the name of “Over Kryvia without button accordion music trip”). The audience coming to the party has the possibility to get acquainted with the Belarusian folk games and dances and to take part in performing of the ancient chanting.

Such music instruments as ocarina, flute, violin, psaltery (maestro Vadzim Parhimovich, Ales Zhukouski), duda (maestro Viktar Kulpin), different kinds of drums are used as accompaniment. 

More than once the band was invited by Belarusian radio channel «Radio-1» to take part in its program «Radioclub Folklore». Together with such bands and singers as «Laiksne», «Licviny», «Ghoscica», Natallia Matylitskaya, «Guda», «Kuokle», «Musica Radicum», «Reketukas», «Manugi», «Dudarzy wielkopolsky» «Vietah» played on the stages of Belarus, Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Poland, Germany, Belgium and France. 

Discography:
Vietah & Vieras. «Temporality» – СD, 1999
Vietah & Talaka. «Arrow» – СD, 2003
Vietah. «Vietah live on DVD» – DVD, 2006
Vietah & Vieras. «Vietah in an acid childhood» – СD, 2007
Vietah & bagpipe bands. «Dudy of winter St. George» – DVD, 2008 
Vietah & belarusian folk bands. Sun - to summer! Winter - to frost! – DVD, 2010

Official website: 
http://www.vietah.narod.ru
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vietah">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.