1. VII is a french rapper. He began his career in 1995, and created his label (Sonatine Musique) 7 years later. His first album "Lettre Morte" was released in 2005, and helped him establish the french horrorcore. His style is a mix of deviant and dark lyrics and references from horror movies and pop culture.
In 2008 the label ended, so he created a new one "rap & Revenge" with which he wil release his second album "Les jardins macabres" which is even darker than the first one. Since then he has released 7 solo albums, an album with LittleDemo, and a Split EP with the metal band Eight Sins. In 2013 he helped producing a band called 1984 (in reference of the Orwell's book). They released "Le théâtre des pantins" and "Atrophie".
His last album is an effort to switch a bit from his usual range of topics. On it he still keep a dark approach but with lyrics less raw and more politically aimed.
He's often called the "french Necro" and has also writed a book called "Les fleurs de Lazarre" which can be found on his website.

 2. VII is the artistic alias of Mike Bucchino, 25, an American musician residing south of Providence, RI. Originally releasing tracks ca. 2009 as 'asdfghjkl', he re-branded his music in early 2010.

His first group of releases, The Color Demos (Aqua Blue, Grimy Green and Hot Pink), are currently available for free download through thenumberseven.bandcamp.com 
Previously released only to friends and other local musicians, new tracks were then added, others remixed, and separated into the following groups: Blue = emo-electro; Green = drrty dance beats; Pink = covers and homages. The eventual single-disc physical release will feature remixes of many of these tracks.

VII is currently looking for reviews, shows and artists interested in collaboration, as well as preparing an animated music video and composing new tracks.

[Note: VII (as in 'roman numeral seven') appears to be a handle claimed by various music artists from around the globe. Two French artists and a Latino rapper currently scrobble to the same playlist, an obvious flaw in last.fm's otherwise phenomenal interface. Hold out hope for a future update which will filter duplicate artists by country of origin. It's also very hard to locate this page through the simple search.]
   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vii">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.