Paul Marie Théodore Vincent d'Indy (27 March 1851 – 2 December 1931) was a French composer and teacher.

D'Indy was born in Paris into a military family of royalist and Catholic persuasion. He had piano lessons from an early age but, to please his family, studied law. However, he decided to be a musician. He became a devoted student of César Franck at the Conservatoire de Paris. As a follower of Franck, d'Indy came to admire what he considered the standards of German symphonism.

Vincent d'Indy, together with Charles Bordes and Alexandre Guilmant, founded the Schola Cantorum, a Franckist conservatory, in 1894. D'Indy taught there and at the Paris Conservatoire until his death. Although D'Indy was often accused of harboring vehement anti-Semitism (like his musical inspiration Wagner), which together with his lifelong monarchist bent led him to join the Action Française for some time, he nevertheless won respect from fellow musicians totally opposed to his outlook, such as Camille Saint-Saëns, Claude Debussy, Pierre Monteux and Charles Munch. Among his many pupils were Erik Satie, Bohuslav Martinů, Albert Roussel, Isaac Albéniz, Arthur Honegger, Darius Milhaud (whose family was Jewish) and Joseph Canteloube (who later wrote d'Indy's biography).

Few of d'Indy's works are performed with any regularity today. His best known pieces are probably the Symphonie Cévenole or Symphonie sur un chant montagnard français (Symphony on a French Mountain Air) for piano and orchestra (1886), and Istar (1896), a symphonic poem in the form of a set of variations.

Among d'Indy's other works are other orchestral music, chamber music, piano music, songs and a number of operas, including Fervaal (1897). As well as Franck, d'Indy's works show the influence of Richard Wagner (he attended the premiere of Wagner's Der Ring des Nibelungen at the Bayreuth Festspielhaus in 1876).

D'Indy helped revive a number of then-largely forgotten early works, for example, making his own edition of Claudio Monteverdi's opera L'Incoronazione di Poppea.

His musical writings include the co-written three-volume Cours de composition musicale (1903), as well as studies of Franck and Ludwig van Beethoven.

D'Indy died where he was born, in Paris. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vincent+D%27Indy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.