Band´s history
VINDEX plays music based on rough power metal riffs and nimble twin-guitar neo-classical melodies. The trademark of the band is the vocalist, who is reminiscent of singers like Udo Dirkschneider, Chris Boltendahl or even Graham Bonnet. This gives the band’s music a rough edge to offset the smooth compositions and thus prevents the songs from becoming overly sentimental.


The band started its existence in 2000/2001 as a studio project of young bass guitarist Ronnie König, who started recording his own compositions. The first one who joined him was a friend of Ronnie, guitarist Jozef Rigo (spring 2002). As the songs were arranged for two guitars, they soon invited Ronnie’s former school mate and talented metal guitarist Ado Kaláber. Unfortunately, they could not find a drummer capable of playing classic metal style in time for recordings. As a result, they had to compromise and use a drum-machine instead. Luděk Struhař, the vocalist had joined the band as the last one. Interestingly, he was found via Accept – tribute band FLASHBACK from the Czech Republic. Moreover, he is also known as a skillful drummer of now disbanded PREMIER, once one of the top-selling rock bands in former Czechoslovakia. This line-up recorded the band’s first and only demo CD named Rise Up! (September 2003). Ambitiously, the band started immediately playing their live gigs. The first two dates took place nowhere else than on two biggest summer rock festivals which were organized in Slovakia in 2004 – More Than Fest in Martin and Masters Of Rock in Senec. There they shared the same stage with bands like Helloween and recently reunited Europe. Their live activities continued also during the following year, although the band focused on rehearsing and recording new studio material, which comprised more tracks than for just one album. 


In October 2005 VINDEX released their debut album Power Forge with a special guest appearance of Victor Smolski (RAGE) by Italian label Steelheart Records in Europe and Japan. 


In October 2006 VINDEX released their debut album No Middle Ground in Slovak label Streetprodution. The album consists of 10 tracks, stylistically spanning metal from neoclassical power metal to energetic hard rock, while keeping all the elements present on Power Forge. In summer 2007, the band started rehearsing for the 3rd album in this line-up: Ado, Filip, Ludek, Jano, Robert and Ronnie. Tommy König, Ronnie's brother has been around the band since the very beginning, doing the lyrics for almost every song VINDEX ever recorded. Soon afterwards, the line-up was completed. Adrian Ciel, talented drummer, joined the band in March/April 2004 and Jozef Rigo, who could not continue playing in the band due to personal reasons was replaced by Ronnie's old friend, eccentric guitarist Marian Miček in May 2004. Keyboard player, Jano Tupý, collaborates with the band since October 2004. He became an official member of the band on 20th March 2006. In summer 2006, Adrian leaves the band and the band stars looking for a replacement. There were more drummers, which played with the band during this time. Rasto Podmanicky and Franz Löchinger where serious candidates, but the collaboration failed due to time reasons. In autumn 2006 Lubo Lauko came in the band and he did the shooting for the video to the song Read The Stars. In the beginning of the year 2007 another personal change happend. Guitarist Maros left the band a and a young talented guitarist Filip Kolus filled his place. That was not the only change in 2007. In May 2007, the band found a new drummer Robert Jarsky, who has been Ludek's band mate in Flashback (Accept Rev.). 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vindex">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.