2008 by the then still fourteen Graishak founded, brought Selbiger guitar, bass guitar playing and singing, to independently implement a one-man project his ideas. From the end of 2008 he gathered ideas for his first publication, which is produced in December 2009 in his home studio "Winter Forest Demo 2009" ultimately manifested. This limited edition of 50 pieces limited edition, which itself Graishak sales, sold quickly. But before the end of December 09 sale started, only two songs were done for his upcoming album. Could one of the "Winter Forest" demo still rather hear Pagan Metal with occasional Viking and Black Metal influences, her successor should be a mostly dark and melancholy concept album with a wide range of stylistic musical elements. Eventually, it took from December 2009 to July 2011, until enough material for the intended target was. Within one and a half months was Vinterforests debut album "Aarstider" then alone in the home studio recording and mixing. On 20.4.2012 finally, the album with a running time of over 61 minutes on the Swiss label Black Tower Productions was published. What the press to Vinterforests debut album "Aarstider" says: Folkmetal.at (12/15 P.): "Thus, one can only congratulate the Swiss record label: 'She pulled a jewel on land'." Bloodchamber (9/10 P.): "The change of tempo is perfectly realized and so chasing a climax to the other, [...] the album is from start to finish, very well thought out and thus converted the songs intelligently." Metal1.de (9/10 P.): "Above all, the atmospheric density is the greatest strength of VINTERFORESTs debut is [...] At this point I want to pull my hat off to the performance of the Holstein boy with his very. young age, an astonishing musical maturity to flow into his work. " Burnyourears (8/10 P): "Finally, it remains to say that" Aarstider is "a highly recommended album and heavy riffs, fast tempo changes and emotional acoustic parts offers everything your heart desires. And also atmospheric is "Aarstider" very successful. A secret. " <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vinterforest">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.