There are Four acts called Vinyl: 1) a japanese rock band 2) a 'dandy rock' band from Iceland; 3) a seven-piece eclectic dance outfit from San Francisco; 4) a collaboration between techno producers Stefan Goldmann and Strahil Velchev.

1) VINYL is a Japanese rock band. Formed in 1995, stopped its activities in 1999.

2) a 'dandy-rock' band from Iceland. Band members are: Vocals - Kristinn Júníusson, Guitar - Egill Tómasson, Bass - Arnar Snær Davíðsson, Keyboard - Þórhallur Bergmann & Drums - Guðlaugur Júníusson. The band was featured on the "Screaming Masterpiece" documentary about Icelandic pop music. Their self-titled EP featured 2 singles that were quite succesful on various alternative music charts. Bands producer is Solvi B of the Icelandic hip hop band Quarashi. Vinyl once oppened a show for Foo Fighters on Iceland. /word. 

3) Originating in the San Francisco Bay Area over eight years ago, Vinyl has become as tight a seven-piece ensemble as can be found in today's music scene.  The infectious music of Vinyl blends old-school funk, Latin percussion, reggae and R&B into signature instrumental grooves. Vinyl's live shows are notoriously high energy dance parties that unite fans of many musical styles. The players have a keen understanding of each other's musical expression resulting in a cohesive and adventurous sound that offers tasteful improvisation combined with a fortified, rhythmic backbone. Vinyl's instrumentation includes the mighty Hammond organ, piano, guitar, sax, trumpet, flute, harmonica, congas, timbales, bass, and drums. This broad array of sounds enables Vinyl to explore Latin rhythms with authenticity, lay down their unique brand of reggae and dub, and drive it all home with booty-shaking, full-figured funk.

Vinyl's extensive touring has brought them to all corners of the U.S. and Canada. They have played a multitude of festivals including main-stage slots at the High Sierra Music Festival, Reggae on the River, Oregon Country Fair, Mountain Aire, Jazz Aspen, Berkshire Mountain Music Festival, the All Good Festival and many others. For the last five years, Vinyl has played sold-out sunrise sets at New Orleans' legendary Maple Leaf during Jazzfest. In 2001, Vinyl teamed up with Phil Lesh for a jam-packed benefit concert in Petaluma, CA with Vinyl performing as Phil's band. Vinyl received a "Wammie" award for Best International Band from San Francisco's SF Weekly and was voted one of the top 25 bands in the country by a jambands.com nationwide poll.

Vinyl has released four albums. These include 1997's self-titled debut, 1998's Live at Sweetwater recorded at the band's legendary hometown club, and 2001's Flea Market, which weaves its way in and out of grooves and dub interludes with the help of musical guests Les Claypool and Bernie Worrell. The new album, entitled All the Way Live, is a live double-album recorded at the Great American Music Hall in San Francisco. It captures Vinyl at its grooving best and includes guest appearances by Huey Lewis, Bernie Worrell, Rob Wasserman, Sugar Pie DeSanto, Terry Haggerty, and many others. Recorded over two sold-out nights, All the Way Live showcases Vinyl's adaptability to different styles and players, illuminates their talents as musicians and growth as a band, and confirms their place as one of the more vital live bands playing today.
(written by user tylerbucket)

4) Vinyl is a trippy techno collaboration between techno producers Stefan Goldmann and Strahil Velchev. They have released the twelve-inch 'Nebula Sofia' b/w 'The Weasel' on the Endless Flight label, and a single-sided twelve of 'The Weasel' on Rebelone. There is a new single coming up in Japan on Mule Musiq.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vinyl">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.