1) A R.A.C. band out of Cardiff, Wales, Violent Storm mixed up punk and metal influences to make a totally unique sound for their time, with lyrical content of racial issues, class, the IRA, and hooliganism. 

Originally the band was Billy on vocals, Paul Casey playing bass, guitarist Dennis and drummer Clarkey. After a year of hard work and struggling due to lack of money for equipment and trouble finding rehearsal places. Dennis quit the band and went into the Army and Clarkey moved to Stoke-on-Trent with his fiance. Soon after this Brian Sheeley and his brother Darren Sheeley took over guitar and drums for Violent Storm. Some years later the band got a record deal and had just finished off their debut album on LP called Celtic Warrior. Everyone was very pleased with this recent accomplishment and were all looking forward to playing in Spain's first international RAC concert.

On Saturday 14th March 1992, Cardiff band Violent Storm who were formed in 1986, were booked alongside Spanish band Division 250, No Remorse, and Battlezone to play for the NS Accion Radical in Spain. On the morning of the very unlucky Friday the 13th 1992, the lads from Violent Storm made their way along the M4 motorway to the airport near Bristol, the car they were travelling in suddenly went out of control and slid into a ditch. Paul Casey, Brian and Darren Sheeley and their friend Jason Oakes all were killed. Billy who was driving was the only survivor who staggered from the wreck.
  
Both British bands No Remorse and Battlezone assumed lads had missed their plane and would arrive shortly. Upon arriving in Spain they discovered what had happened. After much thinking it was decided that the gig would go ahead and would become a tribute to Violent Storm. A three minute silence was observed and Blood & Honour supporters gathered at the gig from France, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Germany, Britain and Belgium raised their right arms and paid homage to our fallen brothers.

Most of the national newspapers carried the story of the bands tragedy. Only 9 days after their deaths, the Wales On Sunday newspaper ran a report revealing the "real truth" about the "racist roots" of Violent Storm. It was no surprise to see the name Searchlight mentioned in their article as the source for their information. Whilst family and friends mourned the loss of four young lives, the Red scum under the cover of darkness daubed Violent Storm's local pub with the words "FOUR DOWN ONE TO GO". Which all happened before Paul Casey had even been laid to rest! The following month in April a benefit concert was organised in Leicestershire. With Skullhead, Squadron and Skrewdriver playing and a collection was made and well over a £1000 was sent to the families of the fallen.

Billy soon recovered from his injury's and shortly after formed a new band. The new band was named Celtic Warrior, after the Violent Storm debut LP. Celtic warrior continued to keep the memories of Violent Storm alive by playing their songs in their set. 

2)Not to be confused with the RAC band Violent Storm {pictured} who released the album Celtic Warrior.

Founded by world-renowned bassist Mick Cervino who has performed on G3 2003 tour; as well as with Yngwie Malmsteen and Ritchie Blackmore), Violent Storm unleashes a sonic barrage of stunning vocals, ripping guitars, relentless bass, and pounding drums, anchored around solid songwriting you just can't forget!

In addition to KK Downing, who Executive Produced "Storm Warning" and played guitar on the tracks "War No More" and "Deceiver", other guitar duties are taken up by Yngwie Malmsteen, who contributed to the tracks "Fire In The Unknown"and "Pain Is For Me". The album was also mixed by world renowned producer Roy Z who is also a Guest Musician on two tracks.

The driving rhythms and compelling melodies of these songs stay in your mind, inviting a deeper experience with each repeated listening.

Official Site


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Violent+Storm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.