1) Mid 1980's Hardcore/Punk Rock band from San Juan Capistrano with only releases on cassette and "South Orange County's Trail of Destruction" compilation.

2) Hardcore band with members from Vendetta, Ability, and others from the Oxnard/Ventura area of California. Influenced by The Icemen, Outburst, and Crowbar.

The Vio-nation is growing each day!

Releases 
Devoured
Possessed
Demo

www.myspace.com/violationhc 

(3) Violation is a New Zealand project that The Tru Virus started up about 2001 but never really got off the ground for many years but with many ideas and riffs just floating around. I

n September 2008 Simon Bell entered the fray for a solitary jam, he liked what he heard and a few weeks later Steve and Simon "Caveman" Bell threw a whole heap of ideas together and got down 2 songs and some covers in the space of about 3 hours. During that week Simon got down some lyrics for the first song. Becca Crowe now enters the scene with the voice of a dark angel wafting through the air, intoxicating to some and damn near beheading some with raw power. 

Shortly after this Simon and Steve get in contact with a very skillful, promising young lead guitarist in the form of Logan Ellis. The mindboggling sweeps, the superfast guitar work, the breathtaking skill, Logan is one of the best of his age. Just before the first practice as a full group Steve gets a phone number from a friend about a vocalist named Kieran Thomas. He came along to the first practice and had a listen to the band and got to know everyone, on the second practice he officially joined the band with his mix of raw, powerful voice and screams, he will blow you away. 

In October Simon stumbles across a very dedicated, enthusiatic bassist in the form of Kelly Bowen. She met everyone and came along to her first practice and really liked what the band was doing and decided it was definitely for her, the band welcomed her with open instruments and the legacy of the full band begins... Beware.

http://www.myspace.com/violationnz

(3) Violation was a Melodic Death Metal Band from Germany. Was founded in 1993 by Alexander Schödel (guit) and Wolfgang Dreiseitel (vox). Two years later the line-up was complete with Martin Saalfrank (bass), Claudia Reich (keys), Andreas Schmidt (drums) and Larsen Beattie (guitar). The six recorded the one and only demo tape "Carbonized" in 1996. The tape earned a lot of good critics and sold 600 copies.

In october 1997 the band travelled to Sweden, to record the debut album with Mikael Hedlund and Peter Tägtgren without a deal in hands. "Beyond The Graves" was released in February 1998 on Last Episode Records.

Soon afterwards, band and company went seperate ways. The new label was Invasion Records and Abyss Studio was booked again for August 1999. Meanwhile the line-up changed: Marcus Fiessmann replaced singer Barney, Olli Riedel replaced Larsen on the guitar and Jens Löhner became the new bass player. In the middle of 1999, due to personal problems of the management, Invasion showed no signs of life anymore, so they went to Sweden once again without a record deal.

In early 2000 a new label was found. Red Stream Records (USA) released "Moonlight´s Child", which was produced by Tommy Tägtgren, in may 2000 in Europe and America.

In 2005 the band called it quits after Alex Schödel and keyboarder Claudia Reich decided to leave the band. However, the remaining members continued on with a new project named "Hellscape".

Hellscape is about to release their debut album "Downwards" in the next weeks!
http://www.myspace.com/hellscape1

(5) Violation was a punk band from Bradford.  The members consisted of  Aki Nawaz (drums), Barry Jepson (bass), Mick Iles (guitar) ,and Mick Brady (vox). Nawaz and Jepson would later join Ian Astbury and David Burrows in The Southern Death Cult, then later Getting the Fear (minus Astbury). Burrows and Nawaz would form Joy after Getting the Fear split and Jepson and Paul Hampshire(vocals for GTF) would form the more noted Into a Circle.

Their demos are up on YouTube, may have to dig around a bit. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Violation">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.