Virgin Snatch sets up in 2001, as an alternative to permanently rehearsing but yet legendary in Cracow band named Death Sea. Why? The base of mentioned band are guitarist Grysik (Grzegorz Bryła) and vocalist Zielony (Łukasz 'Filippe' Zieliński). Both men did join Virgin Snatch.

But from the beginning...

The band was established by Jacek Sławeński (drums) and Bartek aka Sponsor, which came up with setting a new project. Of course neither without a name nor people to be engaged into. First musician that joined brand new band was Paweł 'Baby' Mąciwoda, known from such bands like Walk Away, Oddział Zamknięty and thousands of other projects in Poland and abroad. More less at the same time Bartas asked to cooperation Tomek "Oley" Olejnik, vocalist of very popular in Poland - Proletaryat. Grysik took on playing the seven strings guitar. Around november band started to rehearse. First rehearsals has been very exhausting, both to physical and mental sanity and caused depressive moods and loss of faith into all universal values. Unfortunately, the situation put down musicians to part with Paweł. His place in the band took quickly up Tomek 'Titus' Pukacki, charismatic leader of very acknowledged band - Acid Drinkers. In such established crew, artists started to compose. The effect of works was a demo released in June 2002. In consequence of lasting for some time perturbations caused by self-known reasons Oley left Virgin Snatch behind. The band left with no choice, accepted this decission and started to looking for a new vocalist. In result, after rejecting some not very inquisitive candidatures, duties of band's frontman and lead vocalist are devoted to Zielony.

The changeover of bassist and vocalist causes Virgin Snatch takes the sound and in such established crew starts to work on new musical stuff which is finally released on 6th of December 2003. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Virgin+Snatch">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.