Where do we come from?
We are both from South Tyrol (Northernmost part of Italy - near the national border to Austria)

Any previous bands?
Our previous band was a black metal band called Nargal we took part of from 2005 until 2009.

Band history
In 2009 we left Nargal and went on with a side project which was based on technical death metal. In 2010 we named it “Virial” and in 2011 we released a 4 track demo which is still available via this link: http://www.mediafire.com/download/3gr0s8ua9zavouj/Virial_-_Demo_2011.zip

Band name
Our band name "Virial" derives from the term "Virial theorem". The word "Virial" itself derives from "vis", the Latin word for "force" or "energy", and was given its technical definition by Clausius in 1870.
In astronomy, the term "virial radius" is used to refer to the radius of a sphere, centered on a galaxy or a galaxy cluster, within which virial equilibrium holds [Wikipedia].
There are many other things in the astronomy that can be calculated and defined by this theorem.

Members
- Christian Wieser (lyrics, guitar, song writing)
- Thomas Wieser (vocals, guitar)
- Session members Stefano Franceschini on bass guitar, Giulio Galati on drums (both members of Hideous Divinity)

Concept
The lyrical content of Virial is the universe. Our first album called “Organic Universe” is going to be structured like this: The Intro called “Quantum Fluctuations” is going to be followed by “Coincidence of Existence” (formation of the universe) as opener. 8 other songs about civilizations, unknown solar systems, theories and ideas about how the universe and everything in it works will build the main part of the album. The 12th and last track is going to be called “The Ultimate Fate”, a description of how the universe will end.

Releases
- 2011 – Demo-CD (3 tracks + Bonus track “Anticosmic Overload”, Obscura cover)
- 2015 – Organic Universe (about to get recorded)

Influences
There are many bands that influence us but surely some of the biggest influences (of the death metal scene) are Behemoth, The Faceless and Obscura.

What does Virial sound like
Virial is a death metal project but contains also many melodic parts. If we were forced to put it into a genre we would consider it technical death metal. There are also going to be two acoustic songs on the debut album, with only classical acoustic guitars, bass and maybe some little effects. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Virial">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.