Oi! and RAC band from Atlanta, GA, USA (2004-2006).

A brand new band from the USA introduces itself: VIS VIRES. Founded only in 2004 in Atlanta, Georgia, the quartet already offers the first full album, titled “Inside The Hate”, and they don’t make it easy for the reviewer to find the right words, because they won’t just be nailed down to a certain style. I chose Progressive Metal simply as they are closest to that, but despite several breaks they still bring very straight passages in and add some accentuating Death Metal vocals.

 

The opener “Like A Ghost“ sets out with soaring arpeggios, followed by fat double-bass contrasting the loveliness of the arpeggios, very energetic and with a strong Power Metal influence, which then towards the middle is replaced by a lot more progressive elements, just to take up the opening theme again. Striking here the expressive voice of Alexi Aleister that is supported by a light growl/croak, just like the energy that VIS VIRES unleash here!

 

“The Bleeding Tree“ right after surprises with a quite heavy beginning, including blast beats, before the quartet moves on to a quite own Prog Metal path, not too breaky, but definitely not straight either. Then we get a very interesting double pack in form or “We Are The Shadow“ and “Flesh Invaded“, the first one very dynamic, covering almost the whole speed spectrum and the latter combining progressive and very straight passages, great song!

 

After the surprisingly heavy “Upon A Burning Cross“ VIS VIRES then close things off with the more than ten-minute title track, a little Prog brick, with calm beginning, before cranking it up two gears all of a sudden, including the Death Metal voice. Not 100% yet, but with a lot of potential to successfully realize such an ambitioned composition.

 

The production also is good and clear, underlining the details of the compositions, the visual side does not let off here, nicely differing from the majority, but still moody, this is a very hopeful band growing that has the potential to make it somewhere, not all is gold yet, but definitely on a very good way! (Online February 25, 2005)

Vis Vires broke up in December of 2005, due to band members wanting to pursue different life paths.

Alexi Aleister now is known by his real name, Peter Armstrong, and fronts DearestAzazel. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vis+Vires">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.