Visceral Grinder was born in the spring of 2002 in Tepic Nayarit, Mexico, with the only intention of make and playing the most extreme and insane “gore” of the Mexican underground scene, working with lyrics based around cannibalism, serial killers, pathologies and all kind of paraphilias know and unknown. In the summer of 2004 they released their first demo called “Total Carnage”, having a good response from critics at a national and international level, giving the opportunity for the band to play in many more states of Mexico. In fall of that year the band made their first participation in “In the Name of Gore tour” with other excellent Mexican bands from the same gore scene; this tour turned Visceral Grinder into one of the most famous bands in the gore/grind scene in Mexico. In fall of 2005 the band participated in two of the most important festivals in the country; the “Total Carnage Fest” and the “Guttural Sound Fest”, playing on the same stage with legendary band Pungent Stench. In February  2006 the band got in the studio to record their first full length CD called “Gore Cannibal”, the cd contained 10 tracks of pure and extreme Death Gore Grind. That year the band got a change in their line up, this caused a delay for the launch of the album and the band decide to cancel many shows, for that reason the band then editing a EP called “Cannibalishymn”, whilst waiting for the launch of their cd full album. That album came out in 2007 under the Mexican record label Gore Cannibal Records. That same year the band participate in two important national festivals (one of these is the second edition of “Total Carnage Fest”) with bands like Dead Infection, Impaled and Skinless. In January 2008 the band participated in the “Gore Cannibal Fest”, playing with their good friends Rompeprop, 3 months latter came a second edition of their album “Gore Cannibal”, this time with the Mexican labels Gore Cannibal Recs. And Alarma Recs., the new edition gone to be presented in their city in the famous “Total Carnage Fest”, this time with the Finland band Torsofuck in June of this year. Currently the band are on a promotional tour of many cities of their country and making deals to do a couple of tours outside of Mexico. Actually Visceral Grinder is working in the songs of their next album, what could be come out beginning the next year, possibly under the name “Cannibal Massacre”. Visceral Grinder doesn’t want to invent or change anything, the only thing that they want is to scatter their sickness around the world and blow up head and entrails into small pieces with their insane and nauseating “Gore Cannibal”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Visceral+Grinder">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.