1996 - The birth :
Visceral Dissection was born during the summer in Troyes (France) with Sam (guitar), Steph (drum) and Olivier Davot as a singer. Rehearsals are at the MJC of Saint Julien les Villas where Jean-Jacques Brandao joins the band with his bass. Olivier leaves the band very early because of professional expectations.
Sam have to cope with the grunting. In early October, the band got a new weapon as Max on rhythm guitar.

1997 - 1st steps :
Visceral Dissection starts to perform with some local bands. Olivier come back to sing on the two first gigs.
Then a six death metal tracks demo is recorded at the MJC of Saint Julien les Villas. Its sound like Cannibal Corpse or Carcass according to lot of people. More than 100 copies are quickly sold during gigs even if the demo sounds like it was recorded with a 1st world war tape recorder.
At the end of the year Jean-Jacques leaves the band to create a new band called Headache. JbX, the black metal Necronomicon bass player joins the band..

1998 - The new line up :
Visceral Dissection performs a lot in the Troyes area and starts to create new songs with this new line up.

1999 - 2nd recording :
In may, the band stops two days at the Roadside studio to record with C.Bourgoin a second demo in which they can find all the tracks of the 1st demo and another one really more aggressive called 'Pile Of Stench (in a rotting carnage)'. It also announces which musical direction the band is about to follow.

1999 - 2002 - The settle :
The Lineup hasn't changed and let the alchemy set up in the band not only musically speaking but also in everyday life. Visceral Dissection plays a lot in eastern France with bands like Affliction, Black Candle (All), Cesspit, Come Across, Dementia, Depraved, Gronibard, Heretik, Insane, Knuckledust (G.B.), Khron, Misspent Youth, Sahar, Underground Society, Your Shapeless Beauty… The band also starts an international career and starts touring in Germany and Benelux with Desdemonia from Luxembourg and the Belgium band Suhrim.

2003 - 2004 - The rebirth :
During this period the band composes new material and records it with Christian at Savière, to offer a real brutal album. Unfortunately, it is a demo that is released instead of an album because of some misunderstanding with the studio.
The new recording is announcing what the band could do on a stage! A brutal death metal that comes to hit your face at 200km/h!

2005 - A new grunt :
In July, Sam stops singing and Fafa joins in. He also plays bass and sings with the band Thulsa Doom. He’s now the 5th piece that Visceral Dissection was looking for ages!
The band creates new material with this new line up.

2006 - Everythings become complete :
Visceral Dissection records the drum of the new songs at Christian studios in Savières. Then, Sam records and mix guitars, bass and grunts. All this new shit goes to Littlestep Studio where Xavier mastered it. Fafa who is also a painting and drawing artist copes with the cover and makes it gore… <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Visceral+Dissection">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.