Vishapakahr spawned in summer of 2006 as an unnamed project between two friends, Andre and Arin. Both felt the need to experiment with the idea of fusing black metal characteristics and style with the ancient atmosphere of Armenia and its surrounding regions. Thus Vishapakahr was born. Vishapakahr (ve-shä-pä-kär), derived from 'vishap', meaning serpent/dragon, and 'kar', meaning stone. These stones, dating back to nearly 20,000 B.c. and standing 10-20ft high, are scattered throughout the historic Armenian landscape, primarily near bodies of water. They are a mysterious reminder of lost days and serve as the atmospheric foundation for the band.

      In late 2006 Vahe joins the band followed by months of songwriting. In the Summer of 2007 Vishapakahr releases their self financed and self titled EP. Andre performing vocals and bass, Arin performing rhythm guitar, Vahe performing lead, and Caleb performing session drums. The release of the EP's is followed by a period of inactivity. No interviews are given, no live shows are performed. Towards the end of 2007, creative blood begins to once again flow and the hunt for session/live members begins in the pursuit of performing live.

      2008 brings a departure. Andre leaves to pursue non-musical goals in life. Arin and Vahe decide to push forward. The local scene spits up talent to fill in the blanks and the rusty gears of creation begin to spin, again. The line-up changes result in Arin on vocals and rhythm, and Vahe on lead. Zareh and Mike are recruited for bass and drums, respectively.

      As it stands, currently, Vishapakahr is looking forward to releasing new content and live performances. The absence of co-founder, and initial prime composer, Andre will result in a alternate approach to achieving comparable atmosphere while maintaining the melody and dissonance present in the first EP. Only time will tell how the these wings unfurl...  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vishapakahr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.