Visionary666, Metal as intended: brutal, loud, fast, grooving and melodic. 

Visionary666 comes from the east of the Netherlands finding it’s home in a small village called Lierderholthuis. It’s been their hoe ground for the last couple of years in order to find the right sound, style and vibe to create the perfect music in Metal.
In the process some style and personal changes have been made all resulting in to what the band stands for today.

In it’s early years their music can be described as typical ‘early 90’s’  death metal. Heavily influenced by bands such as Bolt Thrower, Obituary or even Death. Leaning on double bass drums and rumbling basses combined with its typical growling vocals.
Nowadays, while keeping this so typical groove, it’s music is more so often enriched by blasting drums, double guitar riffs, slow and fast, and various styles of grunting. Getting drummer William Vlierman and vocalist  Michel Coppens in the band definitely helped creating this extreme style change. All resulting in a melting pot of the best in Metal.


While writing this the band is finishing up rehearsal sessions in order to enter their studio in March to record a full length album in which all previously mentioned elements can be heard at it’s best.

Accompanying this letter is a 5 track MCD is recorded in late 2008. On this MCD a selection of songs can be heard which show best what Visionary consists of.

The band is:

Michel Coppens     Vocals
Mario Berendijk      Bass & backing vocals
Robert Schotman  Guitar
Ivo Hilgenkamp      Guitar
William Vlierman   Drums

The band, existing of Metal heads, will play for Metal heads. Aiming for the best venues where it’s music can be consumed at it’s best. Try out gigs have been played and new songs have been brought to the stage confirming what the band already knew. Visionary666 is at it’s best and ready to hit the stages. In march 2009 they are hitting the studio again to record the next album to be released by the early summer of that year.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Visionary666">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.