The are multiple artists named Visions: 

1) Visions is a multimedia, art-pop project dedicated to the awe inspiring grandeur of infinite space and our relation to it. To re-think our purpose and place in the ever expanding cosmos, to be at one with infinity for we are stardust. Visions' much anticipated debut album "Jelly Otter" will be released on 4AD on August 7th of 2022. 
Related projects: Longing For Dawn, Instincts, Havan, Scorneg, and last but not least: The legendary Cyclic Law Record label.

2) Visions are a five piece progressive metalcore band from Peterborough, UK signed to Basick Records. The demise of None Can Chain A Mind left four talented musicians at a dead end, still longing for a musical outlet. Following the split of Stamford's Our Dying Concept, vocalist Leigh Tilbrook joined the band in the winter of 2008 to form Visions. Later that winter, they played their first show, supporting Johnny Truant (in what was one of JT's last ever shows).

As 2009 began, the band selfrecorded and released a five track demo EP entitled 'Oceans', allowing wider audiences to discover the band, which in turn found Visions travelling up and down the UK, playing shows, often headlining. Conforming their highly energetic live performance, blending vigorous screams with Siren-like singing to be accompanied with intenese metal breakdowns, technical riffs and a thudding bass.

Having formed for slightly over a year, Visions signed to Basick Records and digitally released debut EP, 'The 33 Sessions' on 26th April 2010. With this saw the band record their first music video for 'Delete The Sky' which recieved great reception and regulary found played on TV channel, Scuzz.

Leigh Tilbrook - Vocals
Jake Monson - Guitar
Dan Maywood - Guitar
Dave Evans - Bass
Joe Large - Drums

www.myspace.com/visionsuk
www.basickrecords.com

3) Visions is a garage rock band from For Worth, Texas that was featured on the complication Fort Worth Teen Scene.

4) Visions is an alt country band from Boston, MA led by songwriter T.J. Petracca that originated as the folk band Visions of Cody. Their debut album Re:VISIONS was recorded by producer Mark Leombruni and mastering engineer Jeff Lipton (Arcade Fire, Wilco, Spoon) The album is a ten song concept record that chronicles a sour love affair that spirals out of control and completely engulfs a writer, until he decides the only way he can ever write about anything else is to bury his Cody. 

Petracca's smooth voice and heartfelt lyrics are matched by his no-holds-barred honesty. Plunging the listener right in the middle of his own personal battles with the devil, alcoholism, mental stability, and abusive relationships.  http://visions.bandcamp.com/

5) Visions was a Swedish crust/d-beat band that has released one demo in 1994 and had 2 tracks on the "Fucking Noise Terror" compilation CD released by Sound Pollution Records.

6) A rock/ambient/shoegaze band out of Portland, OR

Tyson Kingrey--vocals, guitar
Jessica Kingrey--keys, vocals
Jesse Califf--guitar
Michael Wright--bass, vocals
Patrick Akers--drums

http://visionspdx.virb.com/welcome
http://www.facebook.com/pages/Visions/158813294159117?v=wall <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Visions">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.