The project emerged from the mind of Alexei "Wicked" who performed as a guitar player, drummer and vocalist with a number of bands in Minsk for several years. Finally, he decided to express his views at Death Metal and fully realize himself as a composer and musician in his own band. 25/08/2010 the idea of a solo studio project came to life as Vistery. Soon enough, in the February 2011, the debut record "Procreation of the Wicked" was released.
The record had a positive reception from Death Metal fans and was received well on various web portals about heavy music, invitations to perform started to come, and some musicians expressed their interest in the project. 
To raise the bar of quality it was decided to gather a full band of experienced musicians bound by a common view on Death Metal music. In the summer of 2011 Ivan “Paranoid” (vocals), Vitaly “Kuzya” (bass), Egor “Wyrm” (drums)  and Artyom Prudius (guitar) joined the project.
In the beginning of 2012 the band started recording the second album "Sinister Prophecy". In the recording process, the best gear available to the musicians was used and three sound-recording studios were involved. In May Vistery started collaboration with Satanath Records label, who took charge of physical distribution of the new album within CIS. The album was released in August in a run of 1100 copies.
In the winter of 2012 Igor Pak (guitar) joins Vistery, thus making the “studio” tag obsolete after the live presentation of the second album. After several gigs, the band goes on preforming hiatus, while writing new songs. During this period guitarist and bassist left the band and Alexander “Souless” (bass) was welcomed as a new member. 
The return to the stage took place in Vitebsk in the summer of 2017, followed by the 7th anniversary celebration gig in Minsk. After the concert the drummer left the band, and Sergey "Def" took his place. With this renewed lineup the band started recording the third album, which is planned for summer 2018 release.

Current members:

Alexei “Wicked” – guitar, music, lyrics (2010 – present)
Ivan “Paranoid” – vocals, lyrics (2011 – present)
Alexander “Soulless” – bass, music, lyrics (2015 – present)
Sergiy "Def" – drums (2017 – present)


Discography:

2011 - Procreation Of The Wicked
2012 - Sinister Prophecy <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vistery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.