More than one artist has used this name.

1. British indie pop band from Leeds
2. Band from Tbilisi, Georgia
3. Dutch hardcore duo
4. Turkish band
5. American punk band
6. Serbian shoegaze band
7. K-pop girl group

---

2. Vitamin - Band From Tbilisi, Georgia, Caucasus
/ Alternative, Indie, Electroacoustic /

Members of the band Vitamin had its first gig in 1999 in club U.R. with the project 4U. The project 4U lasted only for 2 years. Leader of the band Dato Gabunia performed with his solo project together with different musician, on music festivals. In the year 2004 Dato started to record his first album. In 2005 he with his solo project participated in annual music festival “Rockweisse” in Saarbrucken, Germany. The band Vitamin was formed in 2005 nowadays the band is planning to release their first album.

3.
Two well known dutch hardcore DJ’s, The Prophet and DJ Dano, working together. Together they are also known as 50% of the Dreamteam. And of course both of them are members of the entire Dreamteam

4.
A Turkish band founded by Gökhan Semiz.

Gökhan Semiz was born 12 Jan, 1969 in İstanbul.
He first fell in love with the music of Barış Manço (also take a role in his music video) and then karaoke his songs. Not too later, he tried to play guitar, and listened Erkin Koray and Cem Karaca.
he discoveAfter all red heavy metal. The trip started with Metallica and Iron Maiden then became a Judas Priest and Dio fan. He founded a cover band named Blasphemous. They made their own songs (some of them is funny ones) and played in Gulhane.
In university he choose to have musical education.
He was writing some funny notes and bringing them into lyrics. He shared this with his friends and try to make a melody on them.
He was playing them himself, using an electrorhytm instrument, an electric guitar.
At that time it all was to make fun, but then things became serious and they made their first album Bol Vitamin.
In 1998 he died in an car accident that his friend was driving drunk.

5. An American punk band active in the early 1980's. They appeared on the Modern Method Records compilation "A Wicked Good Time, Volume Two".

6. A Serbian Shoegaze band active since 1996.

Vitamin was formed in 1996, in the twilight of the new wave in Krusevac, Serbia., by: Goran Stojiljkovic - vocals and guitar, Nemanja Resanović - guitar, Milos Vojnovic Kimba - bass and Uros Vojnovic - drums and drum machines.

Initially, the sound of the band went in the direction of guitar noise, under the influence of Jesus Lizard, Shellac and Girls Against Boys, and after several years it evolved into melodic noise and shoegaze, with the addition of electronic sound (drum machines and numerous guitar effects).

From the very beginning, Vitamin insisted on not practicing in regular venues such as basements and garages, but in the living room of the guitarist, to properly set up a direct contact between the members of the band and the music they create.

The band recorded two albums, "Let us try" in 1998. and "Travelling in pairs" in 2000.

Because of previous bad experiences with studio space and "producers", both albums were recorded live in the rehearsal room, without the use of computers and professional recording equipment.

The album "Travelling in pairs" created during the NATO bombing of Serbia in 1999, recorded during the October 5th popular uprising in 2000, is a journey through electric noise landscapes toward a utopian future and the pursuit of opening and expanding horizons in the musical, political and sociological sense (the songs "Station to station" , "Weltamin", "Open").

After a hiatus of several years, Vitamin has returned to rehearsing and live performances since 2010. Material for the new album was recorded and released in April 2013th <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vitamin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.