Vitreous is the brainchild of Australian-born producer Chris Buckridge. Now based in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, his work is the sum of years of musical experience, whether on stage or in the studio. 

Having studied music from his early school years, Chrisʼs played bass in various Brisbane bands over the course of the 90s, eventually ﬁnding most success in My Ninja Lover. A three-piece live act and production crew, MNL also featured Manta Ray and Porl Deville, already know for the work in breakbeat outﬁt Zephyr Timbre. MNLʼs short lifespan (2004-2006) was a blur of tours, live shows and awards for their mix of breaks, electro and drumʼnʼbass. 

When the opportunity to relocate presented itself at the end of 2006, however, the chance to see what evolution had in store was too great. Vitreous, originally envisaged as a label, became the vehicle for Chrisʼs solo production work, and 
the global shift unleashed a ﬂood of inspiration. 

Over the last two years, Chris has reﬁned an idiosyncratic style that blends the best of the European minimal techno scene with the live, organic sounds and inﬂuences of his performing past. Throughout the Vitreous repertoire is an appreciation for subtle, evolving, addictive rhythms. 

This is on display with Chrisʼs two Vitreous releases on the Dektek label: ʻBasmatiʼ, a slap bass-driven electro concoction, and ʻPelletsʼ, a twisted deep house epic. It has also seen him tapped for various remixes: ʻForwardʼ, by Canadian producer Timothy Allen, garnered DJ praise and plays in 2008, while 2009 will see mixes for Segue and Alex Ward hit stores. 

2008 also saw Chris returning to performance, working with Ableton Live and mixing his own productions and remixes in sets up to 5 hours long around Amsterdam. 2009 should see opportunities to take the Vitreous sound to new audiences, in the Netherlands and beyond, and a slew of new tunes released on labels in Australia and Europe. 

For music, photos and other information: 
http://myspace.com/vitreousmusic 
http://soundcloud.com/vitreous <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vitreous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.