There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Viva is a German Heavy Metal Band hailing from Hanover. They formed in 1980 and are still kicking. Their work consists of Blue Jeans Forever, Born To Rock 
What The Hell Is Going On, Dealers Of The Night, Apocalypse & Cream Cake Box.

2) Viva is Spanish EuroDance artist.
Viva's first song Nirvana was released in Spain, and quickly became a # 1 song on the Billboard charts and remained #1 for 6 consecutive weeks.
Nirvana was released under Edel records in Germany. Viva's second song Keep On Dreaming also became a radio hit throughout Central America, reaching the # 1 spot on the radio play lists. And still remains in the top 10 most solicited songs.

3) Viva is also the stage name of another Italian eurodance act. This project was produced by Roby Arduini. Viva released the singles "This Guy" and "Je T'aime I Love You".

4) Viva is an all girls band which was formed as a result of a talent hunt organised by Channel V in 2002. The band had five members who were Seema Ramchandani, Pratichee Mohapatra, Neha Bhasin, Mahua Kamat and Anushka Manchanda. Their first album was the self titled 'Viva' which was a moderate hit. Seema left soon after the launch of their first album. Another album 'Relaoded' was released in 2003. It wasnt a success.. and the group members parted ways with some of them pursuing individual careers, with Pratichee releasing her solo album and Anushka trying her hand in Tamil and Telugu music industry.

5) Viva is an indie rock band from Athens, Georgia.

6) Viva is an American indie pop artist who first released music in the form of a debut EP,  Wait. in 2020.

7) Viva was a 4-member Korean girl group under SHINE E&M. The group consisted of: Gayeon, Jaeny, Yeji, and Lea. VIVA debuted on October 13th, 2017 with ‘Tough Girl’ and in 2019 all members left the agency and the group unofficially disbanded. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Viva">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.