There are two artists by the name Vivian: 1) VIVIAN is a rock band founded in 1998 in Switzerland. 2) Vivian is an American singer-songwriter hailing from Los Angeles, California. 1) VIVIAN VIVIAN combines rock and melody with verve and charm on a wonderfully accessible level. Three years after they were founded they released their debut album "V" (BMG). In 2003 and 2005 the following releases "Alive" (Warner) and Don't Look Down (Hammersound) became the true debut of the band (both albums Top 30 in Switzerland), offering their fans a freer, fresher, smarter more awake sound, the real sound of VIVIAN. With "Alive" and Dont Look Down VIVIAN exploded onto the scene with main stage performances at Open Air St Gallen, Montreux Jazz Festival, support shows with The Cranberries, Lenny Kravitz, Avril Lavigne, Status Quo and a three week US-Tour. One who wishes to move forward - for example from Switzerland into the international billboard charts - must be as determined as the band VIVIAN. On VIVIANISM (release in May 2007), which is already their fourth album, they have put together all their experiences from the past years and their most recent European-Tour with Status Quo (29 shows). Compared with its predecessors VIVIANISM has got an even more grown up and mature approach. It is a representative work of experience, self awareness and confidence, bringing the quartet directly to their definitive point. 2) Vivian Vivian, also stylized VXVIAN, is a singer-songwriter from L.A. She released a solo EP through her Soundcloud and her website in late 2015 entitled "Flowers." Soundcloud: https://soundcloud.com/vxvian Twitter: https://twitter.com/vivlaur Instagram: http://instagram.com/vxvian Read more on Last.fm. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vivian">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.