Vivian Black, is a multifaceted artist: actress of the horror genre, female Metal solo singer, creator of black metal performances, composer, screenwriter, writer, artistic producer and director. A talented woman, whose potential has not been recognized by show business, nor by most of the public of her native country.
This website will clarify, for the first time, who Vivian Black really is; her attributes and virtues, her artistic work, her talent spread out one hundred per cent, her real aims, her mythical and enigmatic personality, and the limit between reality and fiction, the character (or not) of the addressed by many "Witch of metal", "Princess of darkness", "Black witch", or "Satanic singer".
Everything that very few people could have known about her is here, in this web site, to reflect on this, and unravel the profound halos of mystery which surround the first female Metal solo singer from across Latin America who has transcended around the world, (but not in a massive way), breaking the Spanish-speaking frontiers of the five continents.
Her album " THE PRINCESS OF DARKNESS...AGAINST THE PARADISE " was released in 2000, a very particular piece of work, given the characteristics of Vivian’s origin: author of her songs and melodies in Saxon language,
her dark subject theme on the stage and in her lyrics, which clips were launched to worldwide diffusion before having record company, her daring to express her ideas
in the media. And the most important matter... Her country of origin, Argentina; perhaps the most Chauvinistic and narrow-minded country of Latin America, artistically speaking.
This caught the eye of metal fans in European countries, including the ones from the cradle of the black metal, Scandinavia, where the previously mentioned album has been welcomed by the public, gaining thousands of followers, exceeding any expectations. When her career started to become popular globally, Vivian Black vanishes into thin air, disappears, like an illusion, as if she had never existed, like a magic trick ... why would she have taken such decision, right at the peak of her career? It seems to have no explanation, but it has a perfect answer. All these unknowns will be revealed in this singer's interesting and unusual biography, of a more than atypical artist.
http://vivian-black.com/eng/index.php <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vivian+Black">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.