Biography
Vivicide is the annihilation of any and all forms of life on a planet in simultaneous genocide of every species.


"From the depths of hell in Phoenix, Arizona lays a diamond in the rough. They call themselves Vivicide, and they are America's version of French avant-garde metal. The creators of Vivicide, Kevin Coulter (vocals/guitar) and Dylan Troxel (drums), united back in 2009, but it wasn't unt
il 2010 when bassist Noah Shephard joined the band, (commuting back and forth from New Mexico) that Vivicide really came to be.

They draw their influences and inspiration from bands like Gojira and Behemoth. They have shared the stage with some of metal's most famous acts including, Six Feet Under, Goatwhore, Decapitated, Fleshgod Apocalypse, and Vader, as well as opened for the 2012 Summer Slaughter Tour featuring Cannibal Corpse and The Faceless. In doing so, Vivicide has brought many metal fans out from hiding that had given up on the local scene, creating a loyal following.

You can’t help but fall in love with Vivicide once you see them perform live. When they take the stage, if you haven’t been thrown into the pit of chaos, you will find yourself grooving your head to their wicked guitar riffs and your jaw dropped in awe from their epic bassist and talented drummer. Not to mention, they look good doing it-- Vivicide is known for their fun and energetic stage presence, as well as their classy swag." - Sara Lambeth at dabelly.com August, 2012


"Vivicide, could have been mistaken for a band on The Summer Slaughter Tour, with their perfectly synchronized guttural/high pitched vocals and stage presence." - Cassidy and Maddie - The Age of Metal. July, 2012


"Vivicide, took the stage next. This three piece band with their suit vests and ties were sure to bring the crowd something truly unexpected. Describing themselves as, “… the annihilation of any and all forms of life on a planet in simultaneous genocide of every species,” I’m not sure I knew what to expect, but this band was a great opener for Revocation. They are theatrically mixed with great guitar work that has well placed melodic breaks. Guitarist Kevin Colter and bassist Noah Shephard, deliver fast instrumentals with vocal trips of ecstasy. The facial expressions of Noah are in themselves worth going to check out. Vivicide had everyone in the crowd head-banging. Before playing the song “Sympathy” Kevin playfully announced that next time everyone should dress like them. Virtually a three-piece suit is a complete joke for the majority of us in shorts and t-shirts, and still sweating pounds off of us. The song “Sympathy” held no sympathy at all. It’s an insane mix of heaviness and intricacy that showcases the cohesiveness of the band. Not one member is overshadowing the other. One thing I wish they had done, since I have never seen them play live, was announce the title of all their songs. If they would have done this on at least every other song, I would have been pleased because I would know what songs to look up. Not to worry though, I will be checking out everything and anything Vivicide produces because they are truly amazing at what they do. And what they do is bring a fresh style of fast, hardcore metal to the Arizona scene" - Audri - The Metal Review June, 2012 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vivicide">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.