There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Vixen is an all-female rock band who had numerous hits on their first two albums in the late 80's/early 90's. Their hits included Edge of a Broken Heart, Cryin', How Much Love and Love is a Killer. The band split at the height of their success, following their second release, Rev It Up due to creative differences with regards to songwriting and the band's musical direction. There was a third studio album in '98 entitle Tangerine although this was released by only Janet Gardner and Roxy Petrucci with the help of some unknown players and against the wishes of Vixen founder and copyright owner Jan Kuehnemund. The result was a rather protracted legal battle. 

After some ill-fated reunions for various tours and projects, Vixen returned with a stable line-up and started  touring again. They released a new album in fall of 2006 called Live and Learn. The current members are Jan Keuhnemund on guitar, Lynn Louise Lowrey on bass, Kat Kraft on drums, and Jenna Sanz-Agero on vocals. The album was produced by Dennis MacKay who produced the bands debut in the late 80's.

2) Vixen was also a female-fronted hard rock band from the early 80's, though the rest of the band was male. Most notably, ex-Megadeth guitarist Marty Friedman was in this band. A 2004 2-disc compilation entitled The Works includes essentially everything recorded by this band.

3) Vixen is a Polish rapper and producer.

4) Vixen aka Antonina Karakostova is a Bulgarian-born and Copenhagen-based DJ and producer. Since 2017 she has been gaining momentum both in the Danish scene and
internationally, delivering uncompromising vinyl-focused fast techno sets which combine straightforward techno with industrial, trance and acid influences. In parallel, she is also developing her sound as a producer with pending releases on labels Space Trax (DE) and Sacred Interface (DK).



 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vixen">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.