Viza has infiltrated the global music scene with an explosive sound of international rock. You can hear the blasts and screams from the depths of Eastern Europe to the deserts of the Middle East. Formerly known as Visa, Viza exchanged the audio passport with a carte blanche for invasion.


Viza is a brigade of 9 international musicians from Los Angeles, integrating duduk, percussion and oud with the hard edge of rock. K’noup, the fearless leader and voice of Viza, commands the stage with charisma and stamina. As Visa, the band released two EPs and two full length albums, along with an award winning music video. In the De Facto and Eros albums, the music is pervaded by sonorities taken from Arabic, Armenian and Greek traditions blended with elements of rock and dance. In the newly released album, Made in Chernobyl, Russian and Eastern European styles and themes take center stage. Viza is a passport into a musical endeavor that touches its conspirators, cultural, spiritual, and literal influences, while translating them into a perfect balance of old world nostalgia, modern experimentation and social revival.


Viza is currently managed by Serjical Strike Management headed by Serj Tankian from System of a Down. With sold out shows in the US and Canada, Viza fans are now also tuned in around the world. In August 2010, Viza embarked on a special tour in Europe, opening for Serj Tankian’s “Imperfect Harmonies” tour in the cities of Yerevan, Athens, Hamburg, Cologne, Paris, Zurich and Bologna. Viza captivated their audiences with their edgy performances and experienced raving reviews from fans in every city.

K’noup - Vocals, 12 string guitar
Jivan Gasparyan Jr. - Duduk, Zurna
Orbel Babayan - Electric Guitar, Tar, Saz, Vox
Shant Bismejian - Electric Guitar
Andrew Kzirian - Oud
Alex Khatcherian - Bass
Suguru Onaka - Keyboards, Accordian
Chris Daniel - Percussion
Hiram Rosario - Drums  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Viza">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.