We are not just a band, but a tribal movement with all the elements of socio cultural context. A primal art project that takes you on a consciousness expanding journey.

 The collective unconsciousness has designed our way of life through every choice we make. 

 The archetypes that exist in this nebulous layer of our current reality manifest through the will.
 These archetypes are the voices of the dead in today's parasitic, lifeless human space.

 Life is perceived to be a mere existence in a restricted woven fabric of space and time.
 Voices of the Dead is the sound of the rustling leaves from the Viking tree of life encouraging evolution.
 Voices of the Dead is the voice of the kundalini rising through the chakras to a higher state of consciousness.

 Voices of the dead signifies the Om. The omnipresent primordial vibration that is latent in us, pulsating to every moment of our conscious/unconscious interactions.
 Our music comes from these levels of understanding.
 Every note resonates from within and is expressed on the material plane to channel through the grids of your perception.
 Our music is here to fire the synapses in your neural pathways and help you explore the beautiful landscapes within our collective unconsciousness that life has to offer.
 Let us also not forget the beautiful landscapes of our once flourishing planet.

 The dark elements in our work symbolize the death blooming from within as a necessity to awaken us from the confines of human conditioning. 
 It reflects the pain that had been endured to reveal life in its endearing beauty. 
 To break away from any conditioned set of beliefs that restrict the mind.
 Our expressions breathe of freedom, devoid of form. Encouraging rebirth. 
 Our art is open to all eyes, shedding all preconceived notions and stereotypes.
 We are striving towards a constantl learning journey stemming from a synthesis of all the best aspects of the worlds spiritual practices and beliefs systems to have an individual experience within the context of the universal consciousness, with none of the conformity or power struggles.
 Do what comes naturally based on theological study, subjective experience and introspection.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voices+of+the+Dead">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.