1. Voices is a blackened death metal band from the UK, created by former Akercocke members - David Gray, Sam Loynes and Peter Benjamin. As their website states, they "create perfectly imperfect sounds to welcome the end of creation, the end of the human and the end of music..."

2.Voices is Richmond based progressive metalcore band. Started in 2017. With music and lyrics heavily influenced and driven by the feelings of loss and raw emotion, the songs reflect a true outpouring of self.

3. Voices is an ecclectic psychedelic improvisation free-form art/music/performance project sprouting out of Berkeley/Oakland, CA consisting of the collaborative efforts of Travis Wyche and Alejandro Magana. What started out as a couple of friends getting together to elevate minds and disseminate sounds in a moldy Oakland basement quickly evolved into a solidified ritual for melding and extruding complimentary abstract ideals through sound. The band uses a wide variety of instrumentation, early on consisting of simple layering of guitars, bass, and piano, and then gradually expanding to include a drumset split between the musicians, homemade oscillators and sequencers, homemade microphones and amplification systems, stringed instruments such as dulcimers, kotos, and modified autoharps, lo-tech recording devices from 2bit samplers too reel-to-reel recorders, and a humble array of reverberation, delay, and echo effects. The band is prolific in it's output, though sadly many of the recordings have never seen the light of day outside of a small circle of friends. The music itself oscillates between enthused modes of movement by emulating oceanic currents, flowing air streams, shimmering copper, whale and bird song, and other meta-scaled natural phenomenon, as well as more deffinite and recognizable musical influences from jazz, folk, avant-garde electronic compositions, krautrock, and candy pop.

3. Voices were an R&B singing group of the early 1990s. The group, whose video for the first single, "Yeah, Yeah, Yeah!" featured twin actresses Tia and Tamera Mowry,  consisted of members Monique Wilson, Arike Rice, and sisters LaPetra and LaToya McMoore. The group's album, Just The Beginning... debuted in 1992 on the label Zoo Entertainment. It was Voices' only album. Arike Rice became a member of the group Before Dark eight years later.

4. Voices was an Italian post-punk band. 
Memories' Floor, their one and only 12'', was released by Contempo Records in 1985.

5. Voices is a hardcore band from Calgary, Alberta who released their first E.P. entitled 'No Longer Capable' in early 2009. They will be hitting the road this summer. http://www.myspace.com/voiceshc

6. Voices is also a one-time moniker for the artists behind Masters At Work when they released the single Voices In My Mind

7. Voices is also a choir rock group from Malta.


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voices">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.