A five piece female fronted death thrash metal band from Taguig, Philippines, formed in 2004. Hails from scattered places of Metro Manila, Philippines (Taguig, Sucat, Makati, Tondo). Composed of singer Rny Jane Ortega, guitarists Carl Justine Morales and Janjan Molina, drummer Val Parco Caroche and bassist Miguel Fontiveros. Their aim is to create a melodic death/thrash with power and aggressiveness which came out from a heavy riffs, alternate guitar harmonies/solos, relentless double kick/bass and powerful voice. Their music was driven by anger - based on their own experiences.

Hails from Corrupt City of Taguig, Philippines. Originally named Skit, composed of singer Rny Jane Ortega, guitarist Carl Justine Morales, drummer Val Parco Caroche and the two other members who left due to personal issues. in the beginning, they started covering nu metal and alternative bands, even experimenting with goth. In December of 2006, they decided to change the name to Voice Of Tranquility for some reasons and starts gigging in the underground scene since then, several line-up changes. 

February of 2009, guitarist Carl Justine Morales, re-united with the band and Miguel Fontiveros joined to play bass and they released their first EP Demo entitled “The Army of Hades”. Recorded at Earbender Studios, Kawit Cavite. Mixed and Engineered by Macoy Manuel of SIN. which have been played and had a several radio interview at RJ Underground Radio 105.9 FM - a Local FM Radio Station in Metro Manila, Philippines and Internet Radio Stations – across the interwebs like Metal Messiah Radio, Cebu Metal Online Radio from Cebu City, Philippines and All across Europe, The World Metal Podcast from Guatemala, The Bel and Joey Show on Digradio and more. Since then, they played numerous shows, gigs, in and out of the metro like: Gods of Metal – Iron King Music Reverence of Sir Fin Santos (Resurrected), Red Horse Beer Rakista Rakrakan Series and Rakista Jam Tayo (Rakista.com - Founded by Harold "Ridz" Solomon), Filipino Metal Magazine Launch Tour (FilipinoMetal.com), Tower of Doom Event, Lamb of God – Wrath Album Listening Tour (Warner Music Philippines, Hellmet Production), Indiemand Events, to list a few. 

In February of 2011, they added new guitarist Janjan Molina of Goredemise to fill in the rhythm and other lead section. In that year, they'd given a chance to be part of 25 Local Loudest Bands to play for PULP Summer Slam XI – Resurrection at Amoranto Stadium, QC. (The Mecca of Rock in the Philippines) last April 30, 2011, featuring Anthrax, Death Angel, Hellyeah, and UAE's Finest DM Band: Nervecell. The group has been featured on Pulp Magazine's September 2011 Issue and in 2012 they played for Pulp Live World Production for Megadeth's Pre Concert Gig. and in that year also their drummer Val Caroche has been nominated on 'Stig Awards formerly known as Stagg Awards, organized by biggest music retailers in the Philippines (The Music Source and Lyric).

As of now, they’re focusing on creating some new shit to blow up your mind and started playing the new songs live on their shows to promote their upcoming full length album and of course, it's a 100% Pure Death Fuckin' Thrash Metal Mayhem. See VOICE OF TRANQUILITY on shows... and BEYOND!

www.facebook.com/voiceoftranquilityofficial <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voice+of+Tranquility">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.