The band VOICELESS VOID was founded in the beginning of year 1993 by guitarist/vocalist Roman "Boss" Netrebenko, and at that time was recorded debut-demo "Symphony of Pain", however permanent alternations of the cast hindered the achievement of any result.
   Toward autumn of year 1997, after in the band came ex-members of thrash-project "Leviy Bereg" Anton Gubanov and Sergey Bokarev, as well as the old friend of "Boss" Eugen Grafov, the cast of the band was settled: Roman "Boss" Netrebenko - guitar/vocals; Eugeny Grafov - bass; Sergey Bokarev - guitar; Anton Gubanov - drums.
   With this cast in December 1997 - March 1998 at the studio of bass-guitarist of the band "Hard Day" Alexander Bobkov was recorded the debut-album named "Symphony of Pain". Material of the album is consistent with traditions of usual doom-gothic such as Candlemass and Paradise Lost, though the band didn't hold on to canons of the genre in the terms of lyrics, inclined to social themes. In the recording of album took part keys player and she-vocalist Rita Tikhomirova, who left the band after the end of recording. The Album got fair comments and appeared in MC format, but because of lack of common promotion it wasn't widely distributed.
   Since the middle of 1998 till the end of 2000 the band is concretizing actively, playing on the same stages with cultic Moscow bands Butterfly Temple, Nordream, Satarial, Shadow Host and others. In spring of year 1999 in the band appears constant key player Olga, and with her appearance the concert sound of the band gains the power, which is known in the studio sound.
   In the beginning of year 2000 the band starts recording of the second album. In the end of the year 2000 Eugeny Grafov leaves the band, and during the year he is replaced with the member of death-project "Walpurgis Night" Alexey, but in the end of year 2001 he leaves the band too. In the beginning of year 2002 in the cast of Voiceless Void appears as a bass-guitarist the founder of ambient-project "Lost in Reverie" Dmitry "MeG" Agafonov.
   In the middle of year 2002 the band finishes the mix of the second album, which gets the name "Content of Human Being", and which differs essentially from the first album. With the album "Content of Human Being" the band gets its branded sound and style.
   In the autumn of year 2002 Sergey Bokarev leaves the band, and his place is taken by Max Agafonov (ex-"Parallel"), who took part in the recording of guitar parts for the second album. Also in the recording of the album took part Rita Tikhomirova as sessional vocalist. Toward the middle of year 2003 the renewed cast of the band is finishing the preparations of full concert program and begins the preparations to release of the second album. Promo of "Content of Human Being", which was sent to top record-companies and musical publications, gets very good comments and in the end of year 2003 with support of VVM Records Company (DIY label) the second album of the band appears in wide distribution, and at that time the band begins the recording of third album named "Vampire - Another Side of Death".
   In the spring of year 2004 the band takes part in several musical festivals, and at that time in the band appears constant she-vocalist Nika, who takes part actively in composing texts for the new album. In the work on the album apart from own proper musicians take part guest-musicians - supervocalist Abrey (Butterfly Temple, Veter Vody) and ex-member of Voiceless Void Sergey Bokarev, who is playing in cultic Moscow band LEGION. In the autumn of year 2004 Max Agafonov leaves the band and his place is taken by Anton Platonov, who wasn't noticed in considerable projects before. With him the band finishes the recording of third album, and toward the middle of year 2005 finishes mixing and mastering.
   The third album "Vampire - Another Side of Death" becomes a trial for the band, beginning from the used technologies of recording the instruments and vocals, and ending with its content, though it remains however the Voiceless Void product. The album is actually a dramatic-musical work, which is telling the history of overking of Wallachia Vlad Tepec. Therefore in the musical part of the album a big variety of genres is to be found: traditional doom, elements of gothic metal and black-metal, impregnations of heavy, also almost all known types of actual vocals are used. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voiceless+Void">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.