1) Voice of Reason were a hardcore punk band from Amarillo, TX. Members were Dave, Scott, Karl, and Steven. Active from 1991 to 1992, they played shows with the likes of Groundwork, Sleeping Body, and Reach Out. Released two 7"s: "Parody To The Righteous" (Mind's Eye Records, ISME 001) and "Gear" (Selfless Records, SFLS-8).

Renounce Allegiance. Stay Angry. Fuck America.

2) Voice Of Reason is a band from Poole, England.They are :Adam(vox,keys)Dale(guitar),Matt(bass,backing vox)and Jamie(drums).   www.myspace.com/voruk   ; facebook.com/voruk [Also See '...And The Magical 8-Ball Band' ]

3)  A punk band from Orange, Connecticut that also went by A Voice Of Reason:

Voice of Reason are the little brothers in the hardcore scene, who take the spirit of the scene even more to heart than most of the big kids they so earnestly looked up to. Now with the release of their first full-length 'New Beginnings' on Triple Crown Records, Voice of Reason is a band finding its own voice, evolving from the Gorilla Biscuits, 7 Seconds youth-crew style that first brought them together in 1996, to a more nuanced and melodic sound that you would only find in a pop-punk or alternative band. In other words, Voice of Reason is a unique and potent mixture. And while V.O.R. is a band who still sings about staying true to your crew, 'Still the Same,' 'One for One,' they are also writing songs about what is most on their mind, now that all of them are over 18: The female gender. 'Always the Other Guy' and 'The Most Beautiful Girl in the World' are songs which any hormonally-challenged teenager can relate to.

Opening for the likes of Hatebreed, Fastbreak, Farside and Strife, Voice of Reason has proved it can stir up a pit with the best of them, while attracting more girls to their shows than the average hardcore outfit. 'We love it that so many girls come to our shows! The more, the better! Preferably right up front!' enthuses V.O.R. frontman Jason Alex. Jay, guitarists Mike Sabia and Grant Ries, baby-faced Van Hartley on drums and fashion-plate Pat Brenna on bass are indeed all chick-magnets to the tenth-power. Not for nothing have they been called 'The Backstreet Boys with Balls.' Voice of Reason are kids playing music for other kids. But this isn’t a manufactured boy-band, this is the real thing. Response to V.O.R.’s debut 7-inch in 1997 brought worldwide interest to the band, including an invitation to be included on the Victory Records 'Only the Strong' series and other notable hardcore compilations.

In keeping with the spirit of being torchbearers for the past while forging new combinations, New Beginnings was recorded at the legendary Don Fury Studio (Quicksand, Civ, Orange 9mm, etc. etc.) with Mr. Fury himself producing. 'These guys have a quality that I look for in young bands, they believe in what they are doing, and they’re not afraid to just be themselves.' - 1999

Voice of Reason played their last CT show in 2000.

Last Lineup:
Jason Alex (Vocals)
Mike Sabia (Lead Guitar)
Grant Ries (Rhythm Guitar)
Patrick Brenna (Bass) 
Van Hartley (Drums) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voice+of+Reason">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.