Early 2004 guitarist Christopher Gutjahr (Guitarist) and bassist Jens Hartwig founded their band in Ludwigsburg, Germany. To reach their musical goals soonafter Lukas Palme (keyboards), Erik Seitz (drums) and Patricia Riegraf (female vocals) were added to the line-up to make VOICES OF DESTINY complete. In Oktober 2005 though the band split with singer Patricia Riegraf who was replaced soonafter by Maike Holzmann as she impressed everybody with her performance. In 2006 the first shows were done and the band became a well-working team who in 2007 entered studio for the first time to record some demo tracks. At this time keyboarder Lukas Palme started adding Shouted vocals as a contract to Maike’s soprano voice a very important part of Voices Of Destiny’s own attitude.

The duo comined with pounding drums, heavy but yet melodic guitarwork and orchestral arrangements make the sound of VOICES OF DESTINY something special. Following more shows in 2009 the band recorded their “Dare to Reach” EP and takes part in the „Youngsterball Contest“ at the LKA Longhorn, Stuttgart which they won after jury decision. In summer 2009 the band signs their first deal with Massacre Records and in August the recordings start for the first album with producer Andy Horn (Edenbridge, Lanfear, Rob Rock, Liv Kristine, Mortal Love, Majesty u.a.) at his Red Room studio.

For the band photos the international top photographer Alex Kühr (Amon Amarth, Edguy, Brainstorm, Primal Fear, Stratovarius u.a.) could be won for the project and last but not least the artwork was in the hands of international artist Mattias Noren/Progart (Sabaton, Illdisposed, Evergrey, Angra, Kamalot).

On February 26th the VOICES OF DESTINY debut „From the Ashes“ will be in stores – a complete package that leaves no question unanswered. The yound band impressingly combines epic metal like Edenbridge or Epica with goth in the vein of Within Tempation adding some classic metal and death growls. A debut that deserves to be recognized!

http://www.voices-of-destiny.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voices+of+Destiny">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.