Void of Silence is an atmospheric doom metal band from Rome, Italy, founded by Riccardo Conforti (drums, keyboards, samplers) and Ivan Zara (guitar, bass). They combine the pace, distortion, and heaviness of funeral doom metal with the grim atmosphere of dark ambient music. Their current vocalist is Brooke Johnson (The Axis of Perdition). Earlier albums featured vocals by Malfeitor Fabban (Aborym) and Alan Nemtheanga (Primordial).

In 1999 Riccardo Conforti and Ivan Zara created Void of Silence with the intention of creating music that would be the perfect union of different influences. They both come from Italian underground bands: Riccardo Conforti was the Oblivion's drummer and he is still the Syrion’s mind, a dark ambient project for which he make a name of himself during the period of 1998-99 with the issue of two works; Ivan Zara was the Mystical Realms and Oblivion's guitar player.

In 2001 they released "Toward the Dusk", the first work as Void of Silence (after a mini CD titled "Remembrance" that was never distributed for choice of the same members due to a wrong production), composed between November 1999 and June 2000, when Malfeitor Fabban joined the band as vocalist.
Since April 2001 Void of Silence are signed to the label code666. Between August 2000 and November 2001 Void of Silence composed the second album titled "Criteria ov 666", released in February 2002.

After the split with the old vocalist, Void of Silence recorded two new songs for a Code666 compilation, out in 2003. In September 2002 Alan "Nemtheanga" Averill joined the band as new vocalist. Their third album, "Human Antithesis", followed in February 2004. In 2007 Void of Silence started to compose a new album, but Nemtheanga left the band due to his engagement with his other band, Primordial.

Brooke Johnson, vocalist of The Axis of Perdition, joined the band in 2009. The fourth Void of Silence album, "The Grave of Civilization", was released in June 2010.

Official website: http://www.voidofsilence.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Void+of+Silence">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.