taken from this site:
www.scribblekite.com

Volaverunt
León, Gto. / Jalapa, Ver. / DF. México.

Volaverunt is: Eduardo Padilla, Vaka Lee, and Juan Bonilla.Juan Bonilla is one funny guy; he's also a talented arquitect.Vaka Lee is one of the most singular women you'll ever meet (if you ever do meet her). Eduardo Padilla is half insane, and really quite friendly.

 

Volaverunt - S/T
002 Scribble Kite - 2008

Between the beginning and the end of things, space is the only constant, time goes to a second place only relevant to the romantic and used to esthetic illusionism specter. If its measured by the laws of popular music, on Volaverunt's album you'll find little time, only a few minutes I mean, what's a fact is here its lots of space, real and imaginary, galactic and desert-like, nebulous and neat, all agreed in total asymmetry, as, I think, all things in this world should be. Too long for an EP, too short for an LP, the band's debut submerges in a more human and unique side, its just a piece of music with no last names. If with Molloy & His Bike, Eduardo Padilla disguised as a John Fahey, who amnesiac forgot about landscapes to focus on roomscapes, in Volaverunt he rescues a certain claustrophobic essence playing from a point where the fourth cardinal points matches to wall 1, 2, 3 y 4. Here he seems to wear a white suit, let's say, Loren MazzaCane Connor's suit, particularly on tracks as “Die Trying”. If aridity is understood as a chronic emotional necrosis symptom and not as the lack of moist of land and air, then “L'Albatros” is arid in spirit, the chords seem indecisive, it sounds like a man's face with teeth filled with dirt, spurting out a thick black jet of spit. “Dust Devil Soiree” sounds to me like Cocteau Twins playing from the total abandonment inside a leprosarium, in moments Vaka Lee's vocal phrasing (between a nosey Liz Fraser and a Lexotan high Liz Bougastos), results to me exasperating, but that's what music's all about, it remind us about where we're from and rises an illusory and romantic smile when it makes us think where we want to go. (Review By José Ángel Balmori) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Volaverunt">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.