There is more than one artist with this name:

1. Volatile is a collaboration between NubiS (www.myspace.com/NubiSmusic) and Feral (www.myspace.com/feralspace).

They have the same musical roots (mainly big beat). While NubiS started producing electro house, Feral was still into drum'n'bass and dubstep.


They started this project in order to combine different aspects from different genres to make something new, something different, something exciting...


2. A hardcore band from Norwich, CT. Formally known as "Escapeway". 
http://volatilect.bandcamp.com


3. Renowned for their live shows that are bigger than a fat cunt that hangs out at Tony’s Pizza Joint including super special effects such as a 25 watt light globe show, Nigel no mates fuckwit drongo can’t keep time for shit exploding stunt drummer, one fat chick that will do anything for a dollar, one crowd-pleasing rusty onstage gas BBQ, a selection of 3 different cuts of meat, beer, bangers,more beer and 3 competant dickheads blasting out a humourous and extremely unpredictable grind attack!!!

Only when one takes the piss out of life,do we truly understand the nature of this 3 and a ½ piece feed mongoloid musical meat sandwich.These blokes from ….. SYDNEY AUSTRALIA…… unashamedly give it to you real fucking good and don’t take it from no cunt…that’s a grinding guarantee…fucken oath mate!!!You better believe it…these guys have got the hits!!!

Having been lured into the studio under the pretense of getting free piss and chicks that put out,now you too can experience some of the spastic mayhem that is uniquely and undeniably VOLATILE. So crack open a tinnie, slap another corpse of koala on the barbie,kick back and get your head blown clean off!!!!

Endure the raw sensationalism of the band most likely to start World War 3. See what the political wowsers are trying to sweep under the carpet. Even the actual c.d. inlay couldn’t be distributed in its original format so order the c.d. that offended a nation, it’s now freely available from Australia’s best unpolitically correct and unsigned act. 

http://volatile.iwarp.com





 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Volatile">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.