There is more then one artist with this name.

1) Volition, the band, was founded by Mark Burns (Bass Guitar & Backing Vocals), Mark Burnett (Guitar) & James Doyle (Drums) in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria, England. Mark & James had played together in Boss Eye for some time, but they wanted to go into a more extreme, despondent doom direction. 

During this period the two Marks had been jamming for some time, occasionally recording the sessions and later reflecting what they felt would be worth working on in order to transform into full songs. During the break up of Boss Eye, Jas Murray (Guitar) was asked to join on second guitar to give the music some more depth. They worked on the songs continually. And began writing new material. 

The band continued without a vocalist for the best part of 2005, until Jas had a chance encounter with Dave Hodge (Vocals) and they discovered that they both shared a passion for extreme music. Dave expressed an interest at joining Volition, it was suggested to the other band members and they all agreed to try him out. And the rest, as they say... is history. 

During their relatively short time together Volition have had moderate success on the local scene and around the north of England. In autumn 2006 the band was picked up by the Jerusalem based record label Totalrust Music with contract for two releases. Volition will enter the studio in March together with Bri from Lazarus Blackstar to record their debut album, an album that is planned to contain 8 or 9 tracks for around an hour of crushing littered Doom/Sludge! This morbid album is scheduled for summer 2007. 

As of May 2010, Volition has been joined by fellow Northerner, vocalist Paul Gibson, replacing vocalist Dave Hodge.

2) Volition is a young hip hop artist from Essex County, New Jersey. 
His mixtape, The Definition of Volition: Volume 1, has been circulating around the circuit since its release in mid December 08, with guest appearances by Buggz and D Dand.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Volition">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.