Voltaire is a name of at least three acts:

1) A mononym of Aurelio Voltaire Hernández (b. 1967, Havana, Cuba), a singer/songwriter whose music has its roots deeply embedded in European folk and also has influences from the gothic scene. He has also been directing commercials and animating short films for ten years, the best known of these are his Hieronymus Bosch-inspired station MTV IDs.

Inspired by the films of Ray Harryhausen (Jason and the Argonauts, The 7th Voyage of Sinbad), Voltaire began animating at the age of ten on a super8 camera. By piecing together snippets of information from fanzines, he eventually was able to teach himself how to make foam rubber animation models and animate them. The films of his childhood landed him his first directing job in 1988 with MTV. The stop-motion tour of the hellish Garden of Earthly Delights won several awards.

He also teaches stop-motion animation at the School of Visual Arts in New York City.

He also wrote the song "BRAINS!" for the Cartoon Network show "Grim and Evil" which has since split into two separate shows (The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy, Evil Con Carne) and the song can also be found on his album "Boo Hoo".

An avid fan of Star Trek, Voltaire frequently attends conventions and released a four track E.P. called "Banned on Vulcan". It was a set of comedy recordings poking fun at characters from the show. 

He often takes part in Adventure Quest Worlds special musical events in which he is drawn incredibly well!

Discography:
The Devil's Bris (1998)
Almost Human (2000)
Boo Hoo (2002)
Then and Again (2004)
Ooky Spooky (2007)
To the Bottom of the Sea (2008)
Hate Lives in a Small Town (2010)
Riding a Black Unicorn Down the Side of an Erupting Volcano While Drinking from a Chalice Filled with the Laughter of Small Children (2011)
BiTrektual (2012)
Raised by Bats (2014)
Heart-Shaped Wound (2017)
What Are the Oddz? (2019)
The Black Labyrinth (TBD)


2) A German indie rock group from Bonn, too. They were founded in 2003 by Roland Meyer de Voltaire, who is the singer, songwriter and producer of the band. Their discography includes one EP and two albums, called "Heute ist jeder Tag" (2006) and "Das letzte bisschen Etikette" (2009).

Sites: Voltaire-Musik.De (official)

3) A Polish punk rock band who have released two albums.

4) An 18th-century French writer and philosopher, who might be scrobbled by people listening to audiobooks of his works. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voltaire">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.