Vomitron is a heavy metal/experimental band based in Lowell, Massachusetts USA. Their music first circulated in 2002 on mp3.com.

Releases

On January 8, 2007, Vomitron announced on its MySpace that its first, self-titled CD was available for purchase. Many of the tracks are re-recorded versions of the original MP3.com demos, though some of the original names have been changed.

   1.  Arrival 2012
   2.  Robot Sex
   3.  Exploding Metal (Originally "The Long-Distance Ejaculator")
   4.  Mandatory Spermicide
   5. 2884
   5. Frozen in Fire (Originally "Orgasmeus, God of Masturbation")
   7. The Fuck Patrol
   8. Chicken Sacrifice
   9. 665: The Neighbor of the Beast
 10. Fission of Senses
 11. Collapse of a Neutron Star
 12. Penis Flytrap
 14. Escape from Nebulon V
 15. Mortal Wombat
 16. Eye of the Tiger (Survivor Cover)
 17. Vomitron
 18. Through the Wormhole

Vomitron's second official album, a collection of video game covers entitled "No NES For The Wicked", was in production for more than 3 years. The final version became available physically and digitally on September 20, 2011, via a new official website.[2]

  1. Filtered Blow
  2. Contra
  3. Blaster Master
  4. Kalinka
  5. The Legend of Zelda
  6. Ninja Gaiden: Acts 1-3
  7. Troika
  8. Double Dragon
  9. Bradinsky
 10. Ninja Gaiden: Acts 4-6
 11. The Soviet Mind Game
 12. Zelda II: The Adventure of Link
 13. Korobeyniki
 14. Castlevania

Other Notable Songs / Covers

    "Ghostbusters", a heavy metal cover of Ray Parker Jr.'s 1984 movie theme song.
    "First Strike Is Deadly", a cover of a Testament song.
    "The Black Horsemen", a cover of a King Diamond song.

Vomitron began as a musical entity sometime in the early 1400's, and has been wandering the earth as electrostatic waves ever since. With the advent of the ENIAC, the first computer engineered in the early 50's, Vomitron had finally found a host system to dwell in. It was in fact the most undetectable, most perfect virus for any electronic transistor-based engine. Only until recently has it found a way to permeate the minds of metal fans through MP3 and CD audio so that it may reproduce and multiply via the music it may influence. Hence the children of Vomitron are born.

Vomitron is a collection of metal anthems that do not have lyrics, but are so incredibly profound that they actually transfer telepathic messages while you listen. Whereas with Judas Priest you had to get the record, play it backwards, and try to decipher the words, all ya do with these tunes is pop in the CD and your ritual sacrifice instructions will be psychokinetically transferred.

Originally, Vomitron was one of the ancient entities that made the earth available to host the human race. But unlike the other ancients, it had forged the first singular soul that thought for itself. Much like stocking a pond with fish, Vomitron played a vehicular role in populating the earth with those persons who are destructive to the construct, detrimental to the system, who feel that there are other ways than what is presented to them, who choose music (metal) as their voice. It is these people who will survive the final times and reconstruct the workings of the earth the way it should have been. Vomitron is simply a way to unite them.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vomitron">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.