Vomitous first saw light in the deep Scandinavian woods of Orsa, in the year 2001. Founding members were Mike (guitar) and Matti (ex-vocals). Their dream was to create the most retardedly heavy slam ever to be witnessed. The name of the band was taken from the song Festering Vomitous Mass by the undisputed kings of unparalleled perversion, Devourment. They started rehearsing with only vocals and guitar. In 2006 the duo was joined by Lou (ex-vocals) who helped the band get a record deal with Sevared. The first masterpiece to be penned by the hand of Mike was Asphyxiation By Ejaculation. The lyrics to the song were written by Ulf Nylin of Stabwound, he continued to write the lyrics for the majority of the band's first release, a split with Inhuman Dissiliency entitled Supreme Engorgement of Exquisite Disembowelment. The first song to be recorded was Incestuous Necrophilia, this was also the first song to be made public on the band's Myspace. During this period the Vomitous logo was also designed, by none other than the fantastic and totally awesome death metal maniac Paul Ribich, hailing from Cleveland. Due to consumption of vast amounts of alcohol, no one quite recalls when exactly Fredrik (ex-drums) joined the band, but it is said to be sometime in 2006-2007. ..The band played their first gig in Trollhättan, sharing the stage with Degrade and Extirpated. During this time the band had yet to find a permanent bassist, and the spot was filled by Matti's older brother Niclas and later by Joanna. Because of Lou living in New York, and the rest of Vomitous living in Sweden, he never played any gigs with the band, but wrote the lyrical material and promoted the band stateside and on the internet. ..2007-2009 Vomitous played gigs at fests such as NRW, Gothenburg Deathfest and Portside Metalfest. During 2008 they finally found a permanent bassist, Gustav. Shortly thereafter they recruited the man, the myth, the beard - Lundgren. ..2010 has been a year of change for Vomitous, with Lou, Matti and Fredrik leaving the band. Vomitous played at Death Feast Open Air during the summer of 2010 which was Fredrik's last gig with the band, but the first gig with new vocalists Andy and Tarzan, longtime friends of the band. ..Vomitous has just recently unleashed their first mCD upon the world, Surgical Abominations of Disfigurement and their full length, The Stench of Those Impaled is in the works, with Lou working hard on vocals and Mike and Gustav bringing the mighty slams. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vomitous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.