Uwe Groebel started Voodooshock, after Naevus split in 1998, with various drummers and bassplayers until he recorded the first Voodooshock demo in 2000 with Matze Siffermann and Oli Merkle from End Of Green.

In 2001 he was joined by Michael Greilinger (bass) and Christian Specker (drums). At first it was only for the recordings, just to see how it is working together for the already written songs. But then they knew shortly that this is really working out. VS recorded in 5 days and released the debut cd on Psychedoomelic Records in 2002. The rerelease of the demo with two extra songs in 2004 and a split 7” with Conans Iron Kind (US) via Psychedoomelic Records and Game Two Records (US).

In june 2005 Voodooshock returned to the rehearsal room with two new members. Ingmar Petersen on bass guitar and Claus-Peter Hamisch on drums. Both play in Beehoover.

Voodooshock recorded two new songs for a 7" single on Psycheddomelic Records. "The Golden Beauty" and "Live For The Moment".

End December 2006, Voodooshock will enter studio for an upcoming release in 2007 on Exile On Mainstream Records.

Late 2008 saw Voodooshock return with a new line-up which now incorporated drummer Sebastian Engelhardt (ex-Earth Flight, Excoriate, Coldbreathe) and bass player Benjamin Mueller (Earth Flight, Oceanic). Along with working on new songs the band played successful shows in Nuremberg and at the legendary "Doom Shall Rise" festival in Goeppingen in 2009. However due to all bandmembers being busy in their private lives as well as their other musical activities once again Voodooshock's further activities got delayed.

In 2010 Martin Stuellein (Ummanada, ex-Earth Flight, ex-Fastbeat Superchargers) replaced Benjamin Mueller on bass guitar followed by live shows in Nuremberg and Stuttgart as well as supporting Premonition 13 (Wino's latest band) for 3 shows in 2011.

In summer of 2012 Uwe Groebel announced the return of Naevus in its original line-up which will lead them to live appearances supporting Saint Vitus in Stuttgart in July 2012, sharing the stage with Pentagram, The Skull and Solstice at "Hammer Of Doom" in November 2012 as well as the last ever show at the legendary Kunstverein in Nuremberg in December 2012.

Current line-up:

Uwe Groebel - Guitars, Vocals
Martin Stüllein - Bass
Sebastian Engelhardt - Drums

Past members:

Michael Greilinger - Bass
Oliver Merkle - Bass
Ingmar Peterssen - Bass
Benjamin Müller - Bass
Claus-Peter Hamisch - Drums
Mathias Siffermann - Drums
Mathias Straub - Drums
Christian Specker - Drums <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voodooshock">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.