VORKREIST was born in 1999 from the unholy meeting of 5 unpure minds with the will to spread their hate towards humanity and dedication to the black war cult.

Mixing death metals brutality and bestiality to black metals aggressivity and rawness, VORKREIST is delivering an uncompromising SATAN dedicated death-black metal.
In 2000 the band has released a promo-demotape consisting of 4 hymns of hate. The demo received a very good response within the underground scene, chaos started to spread.

VORKREIST has delivered his hate on stage for gigs with various black and death metal acts, such as Belphegor, Antaeus, Kaamos, End of O2 the band has recorded a full length album entitled "SABBATHICAL FLESH POSSESSION", 1O tracks of pure violence and satanic aggression, released in September O3 on CD format under XtreemMusic Records (Spain). LP version to be out soon.

With a raw and grim sound, this work prefectly captures the true essence of the old school where Vorkreist blend the brutal and savage Death Metal of bands like DIABOLIC, ANGEL CORPSE and MORBID ANGEL, with the aggressive and holocaustic Black Metal of the early works of IMPALED NAZARENE, IMMORTAL and BESTIAL WARLUST.

Recorded during 2005 and with the coming of a new perverted soul on drums, "Sublimation 29A" is the second album of Vorkreist. In the continuity of "Sabbathical Flesh Possession", it delivers 9 works of brutal Death-Black Metal inspired by revulsion and deviance, in criminal, demonic dedication to the destruction of obsolete and pernicious humane values. Structures have been developed and aggressiveness improved along these distinct but definitely coherent tracks, the whole serving Vorkreist's vision of Hell and reality, opposed and entangled in each other.

Due to his departure to Japan, Silmaeth has been replaced by Mister EsX who is now a permanent member.

In september 2K7, Vorkreist made an european tour with Horna and Black Lodge. 19 ceremonies in 13 contries. Khaos everywhere . All hails to those we met !

SRK has been kicked out during year 2K9, replaced by Saint Vincent from Blacklodge who is now our new singer.

The band is about to spread their third opus, Sickness Sovereign, through Trendkill Recordings

Sickness Sovereign presents a canvas of malicious patterns created by the ultimate Artist : Sickness. The breed of God finds there no other mean than being the fresh virgin matter for each day a new work of Art. Human, as the copy of God, is enhanced mentally and physically to deformity and insanity, becoming in its decay and humiliation the evidence of the satanic principle that is encrowned in absurdity and ugliness. The Earth is nothing but the realm of the Sickness Sovereign.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vorkreist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.