Vorna are a melancholic metal band from Tampere, Finland founded back in 2008. The six-piece band started first as a melodic black/folk metal but later absorbed various influences from symphonic, atmospheric and melodic metal – now delivering a dark and majestic performance sung in the beautiful Finnish language.

Official website and social media links:
http://www.vorna.fi
https://www.facebook.com/VornaOfficial
https://www.instagram.com/vornaofficial/
https://twitter.com/vornaband
https://www.youtube.com/user/VornaOfficial

Line-up:
Vesa Salovaara - Vocals
Arttu Järvisalo - Lead Guitar
Henri Lammintausta - Rhythm Guitar
Niilo Könönen - Bass
Saku Myyryläinen - Keyboards
Mikael Vanninen - Drums

BIOGRAPHY:
After publishing a few unofficial demos, Vorna finally released their debut full-length album “Ajastaika” in 2013 which received lots of positive feedback and reactions both from the Finnish and international media. In 2014, the band started active touring and played several shows in Finland making their first impressions in live environment.

One year later, the biggest Finnish metal media outlet Kaaoszine ranked Vorna as one of most promising, upcoming rock/metal bands from Finland. The year of 2015 would also stand for their busiest year so far as their signature beer “Taival” was launched in the Finnish markets in autumn, followed by a European tour through Finland, Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden culminating to the release of their highly acclaimed second full-length album “Ei valo minua seuraa” in December.

“Ei valo minua seuraa” received astonishing reviews, praises and honorary mentions both among the fans and media. This album made absolutely clear that Vorna had now become a well-known act in the underground metal scene and it opened many doors for the future: in January 2016 Vorna were signed to Nem Agency, one of the biggest independent booking agencies and live promoters in Finland, and half a year later played their first festival appearance at SaariHelvetti together with such acts as Shining (SWE), Turmion Kätilöt and many more.

In autumn 2016 Vorna recorded two to-be-self-released singles: “Aalloista” which was released in September and was followed by a Finnish tour with Whispered, and “Tie varjoista” in January 2017 which was then followed by another Finnish tour with Thyrfing and Kalmah aside with Vorna’s appearance at JKL Metal Festival in Jyväskylä. After playing numerous club shows in spring 2017, Vorna were invited to one of the biggest Finnish summer metal festivals, Nummirock, accompanying such acts as Rhapsody, DevilDriver, Raised Fist, Wintersun, Insomnium and many more. Only a few months later Vorna left for a touring break in order to focus on their upcoming third full-length album.

In 2019 Vorna are coming back with full force. Now with over 10 years of experience under their belt and still going strong with the original line-up, the six-piece are bringing their anticipated and carefully crafted third full-length album “Sateet palata saavat” which will be released in autumn 2019 through their new label Lifeforce Records. “Sateet palata saavat” is the most refined and most ambitious Vorna release to date which will redefine the Finnish melancholic metal music for years to come. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vorna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.