VORTICE was born in Barcelona on January 2004. Their members come from well-known Spanish bands like Uziel [Underhill Records], Omegacinco  [Goldstandardlabs] and Apnea.

The band guidelines in a musical level differ from everything done before by their members, getting closer to other musical styles like Extreme Metal, Post Metal or Math Metal, mixing as well the personal influences from each of its members. Vortice’s sound is thick, low, heavy and complex.

One of the main goals of the band was to be cautious about appearing live. The band could then spend more time to compose and mature their songs looking for a more personal sound. This helped out as well to give some space and finally to make a breach between past and present.

Vortice went to studio for first time on January 2006 to record three songs for promotion (one of them appeared in the Rockzone Magazine compilation with bands like Sepultura) and with the idea to improve their sound for the upcoming debut full length album. This recording session was produced by Iban Puigel (The Unfinished Sympathy ) at the Fundicio Musical del Barri in Hospitalet del Llobregat (Barcelona). Iban, former member of Vortice, understood perfectly the band sound with an amazing result.

Vortice has been playing live around Spain in cities like Barcelona, Valencia, Ubeda, Madrid, Bilbao, Oviedo o Donosti. They played with well-known bands like Moho, Another Kind of Death, El Paramo, Moksha, Adrift, Red Sparowes, Unsane... With great success within the audience.

Between the 6th and 20th of April 2007, the band got into studio for the recording of their debut full length album that took place at the The Room BCN Studios in Barcelona, produced by Gorka Dresbaj and mastered at the TailorMaid Studios in Sweden by Peter in de Betou (Dimmu Borgir, Enslaved, Meshuggah, Marduk, Nasum, Nine,...). The record wil be released by the end of this year by the Madrid label Holy Cobra Society Records.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vortice">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.