Formed in 1996, ensemble Vox Clamantis comprises a diversity of musicians – singers, composers, instrumentalists and conductors – who have a common interest in the Gregorian chant. Next to the Gregorian chant, considered to be the foundation of all European professional music culture, Vox Clamantis often performs early polyphony and contemporary music. Many Estonian composers, among them Arvo Pärt, Helena Tulve, Tõnis Kaumann, Toivo Tulev and Erkki-Sven Tüür have written compositions for Vox Clamantis. 

Vox Clamantis has performed together with various internationally renowned organists like Jean Boyer, Jon Laukvik and others, and given concerts with Catalan soprano Arianna Savall, early music consort Hortus Musicus, new music group NYYD Ensemble and the Estonian Philharmonic Chamber Choir. Continuous collaboration with different musicians has inspired the birth of impromptu programmes, based on improvisation, with the Weekend Guitar Trio, saxophonist Villu Veski and the American percussionist Brian Melvin. In spring 2007 a new programme « Sacred Voices » with the Tunisian singer Dhafer Youssef was premiered.

Vox Clamantis has recorded for ECM Records, Mirare and Arion. The CD « Annum per annum », where Gregorian Chant and early polyphony is interwoven with organ music by Arvo Pärt, recorded together with an Estonian organist Aare-Paul Lattik, has received very positive international feedback.

Concert tours have taken Vox Clamantis to Latvia, Finland, Norway, the Czech Republic, Austria, Belgium, France, Luxembourg, Portugal, Poland, Germany, Switzerland, UK, Italy, Greece, Lebanon and Canada. Particularly should be highlighted the close collaboration with Le Chœur Grégorien de Paris (the Paris Gregorian Choir), which has resulted in concerts in different European countries, but also in Morocco and Japan.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vox+Clamantis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.