A number of bands are called Voyage:

1. Mihajlo Veruović (born 15 September 2001 in Belgrade, Serbia), known professionally as Voyage is a Serbian singer and musician. 

2. An Electronic / Chillwave / Synthwave artist from Belgium, active since 2017.

3. A European disco group. Their lone Billboard Hot 100 entry was "Souvenirs," which hit number forty-one in 1979. They had much better luck on the U.S. Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart, where two of their albums, "Voyage" and "Fly Away", hit number one in 1978. They also had three hit singles in the U.K.

4. A Techno / Trance outfit. Released an EP titled "Beyond Time" in 1994, also contributed tracks to a number of Trance and Ambient compilations.

5. A Dutch gothic/ doom band, forerunner of Within Temptation, formed by Robert Westerholt and Jeroen van Veen.
Formerly known as The Circle. Founding member Robert Westerholt left The Circle during the recording of their 1st album in 1995 due to creative differences, and immediately afterwards the band changed their name to 'Voyage', because Robert insisted on taking the name with him. Therefore, the band's album was released under the band name Voyage; titled 'Embrace' (1996, Nightfall Records). This album was originally intended to be The Circle's debut album. Robert co-wrote most material from 'Embrace', but he wasn't mentioned in the booklet at all. Robert was replaced on the album recordings by Patrick Harreman.

After the name change of The Circle, Robert Westerholt founded the well known band Within Temptation, with some of the Voyage-members joining him aswell (after Voyage split up). Also in 'WT' is Robert's long time partner Sharon den Adel, who did a guest appearance on the song 'Frozen' from the album 'Embrace', the ment-to-be debut album of The Circle. Her contribution can still be heard on the album as it was released by Voyage, so this particular song must have been recorded before Robert left the band.

The Voyage song 'Frozen' (ft. Sharon den Adel) was put on the internet a couple of months before the release of Within Temptation's 'The Heart of Everything' album because it was thought to be the track 'Frozen' from that album. However, both songs are completely different and this was a total mix up. The Voyage track 'Frozen' is a reworking of a track recorded by The Circle for a DSFA compilation.

Voyage disbanded not long after the release of their 1st (and only) album. Some of it's members would end up with Robert Westerholt in his new band Within Temptation.
/from Encyclopaedia Metallum/

6. An Electro / Synth-pop act, released two tracks on a split EP in 1989 entitled "Haggard" and "Recluse".

7. A Trance outfit, released a 12" entitled "L'Infinité" in the year 2000.

8. A Tribal / Experimental / Ambient band, released "Kelimdance" in 1994.

9. A Japanese visual/kei band active in 2004/2005 (Ｖｏｙａｇｅ).

10. Polynesian Folk group from Tahiti

11. A Hungarian dark wave / synth pop band, active from the middle of 90s to the beginning of 2000s, restarted in 2018.

12.  A Drum and Bass / Techstep artist with two albums released on the Tech Itch Recordings label, Genesis (2016) and INVADER (2019). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voyage">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.