There are multiple artists which use the name Voyager:

1. A melodic progressive metal band from Australia
2. An ambient sludge metal band from the United States
3. A pop group from the United Kingdom
4. A drum and bass project
5. A rock band from the United States
6. An electronic project of Justin Scott Dixon
7. An electronic project of Tom Moore
8. An acoustic project of Andrew Tortorella ( www.voyagingvoyager.bandcamp.com )
9. An electronic (psytrance) project of Thomas Dubreuil, formerly known as Altöm
10. A j-pop unit created to produce music for the Ultraman series.

1. Voyager is an Australian melodic progressive metal band.
Voyager from Perth, Western Australia, was founded by Daniel "Nephil" Estrin in 1999 and released its debut album "Element V" in 2003. Their most recent album is "The Meaning of I" released on October 11th, 2011 via Sensory. The band has referred to their music as "80s synth pop on progressive metal narcotics". Voyager have toured Europe twice and around Australia a number of times.

Bandcamp: http://voyager.bandcamp.com/
Homepage: http://www.voyager-australia.com/
Official Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/voyageraustralia
Myspace: http://www.myspace.com/voyageraustralia
Soundcloud: http://soundcloud.com/voyagerau
Twitter: http://twitter.com/Voyagerau


2. Boston-based ambient sludge metal band.  The band combines a wide variety of influences, creating a style of post-metal that fuses the melancholy and melody of bands like Cult of Luna and Katatonia with massive, crushing riffs and a sense of urgency hinting at their roots in hardcore and sludge (ala Crowbar, Will Haven, Coalesce, etc).  

The band released a well-received self-titled debut EP in 2008 on Forgotten Empire records, and a split 12" LP with Monolith (Philadelphia) in 2010 on the NYC-based Silence of Silence label.  As of November 2010, the group has changed their name to simply 'VYGR' to avoid confusion with other acts, and has recorded a full-length album titled "Hypersleep" which is due for a January 2011 release through San Francisco label, Creator-Destructor.

 VYGR - Bandcamp

3. Their debut 1979 single Halfway Hotel hit #33 in Great Britain, but managed to crack the Australian top ten. Formed in 1978 the bands first album hit the number 1 slot in the Australian chart in 1979.  The band released two further albums then disbanded in 1981.  They reunited in 2004 to record the album 'Eyecontact' released in 2006.  The song 'Another Fool' is from that album.  Paul French, lead vocalist and pianist with the band has released his first solo album 'Pieces Of Fate' which can be heard on his page on this site

4. Intelligent drum and bass side project of Pete Parsons with releases for R&S, Dee Jay, Lucky Spin, Good Looking and Creative Source. His newest release is under alias Pete Voyager for track Long White Cloud  released at Camino Blue Recordings.
Selected Works:
Future Retro (R&S)
Apollo / Beatink (Goodlooking)
Voyager / Eastern Promise (Lucky Spin)

6. Voyager (Houston)
And early 80's rock band from the suburbs of Houston, Texas, that relased an album called "...Sound Barriers."

7. Voyager is also an alias of electronic artist Justin Scott Dixon.  

8. VOYAGER is the sound-world of Tom Moore.  He creates and plays meditative, ambient, atmospheric, and electronic music.  He states that he "explores and shares sound-worlds that rise from, and that express, a timeless source of inspiration.   VOYAGER projects are an expression of the visionary journeys of Tom  and other musicians that journey with him.

VOYAGER's music projects come in two different series.  The "Sound Dreams Series" and the "Traveler Series."  The "Sound Dreams Series" is characterized by its relaxed and ambient-like sounds, and is meditative in nature.  The "Traveler Series" is characterized by trance-like rhythms and unfolding sonic dimensions.

VOYAGER is well known for its world-wide visionary release titled "Sound Dreams" on the Sense of Purpose Music label.

9. Voyager is also a psychedelic trance project of French musician Thomas Dubreuil, formerly famous for his participation in genre's landmark duo Altöm. Voyager's music generally preserves Altom's original approach to sound. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Voyager">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.