Radio Silence the new EP from Vulnerable is available on 2nd December 2009!

Six years' writing, four years' recording, three recording venues, and at least two changes in recording technology, all to make one EP. It's been a long time coming, but the batch of tracks from the lengthy Radio Silence sessions have finally arrived!

The sessions began in August 2005, as soon as recording for The Memory of Water was complete, with the first batch of songs released as the "Defeat by Deceit" EP in autumn 2007. The Radio Silence EP includes four more songs from those original sessions, plus five new tracks written since - right up to Dance, written in March 2009. One Last Love Song carries the distinction of being the first song written for this EP back in October 2003, and the last to finish recording, in November 2009 - a total of six years' from conception to completion. Now that's dedication! Enjoy...

Available for FREE DOWNLOAD at http://www.invulnerable.co.uk from the 2nd December 2009!

Biography

We started up in May 2000 after many years of messing around with comedy bands that weren't funny. Finally we've settled down under the name Vulnerable. We're a rock band and we refuse to use studios or live drums and as such only record via computer. We think it's about making music and not profit. Since Ray lives in Leeds, Martin lives in Hamburg and I live in Edinburgh the chances of us playing live are somewhat unlikely. Whoops! In short, what we make costs us nothing and we don't mind if you don't like us!

We began recording our first album "inferior" on a four-track - it was a simple process and recording took a week or two. The end result was pretty good for a first attempt but the album felt messy and undercooked. In that respect for our second album "No Exit" we wanted to become more acoustic and not just stick heavy guitars on everything. As it turned out, the album was much heavier than expected, yet more gentle. There were more varied styles of song and the album was all the better for it.

In 2003 we released "Priorities Changed" which was a wonderful success. We produced it using Sonic Foundry Acid and the results we got were exceptional. The song writing had developed and the use of electronica and samples gave us a whole new depth.

Due to full time commitments and wage-slavery, it took ages to get our fourth album out. Two years in fact. The Memory Of Water was released in 2005 and is our most successful and well known album to date.

Following this we have stopped working on albums and instead have started releasing all our work as short EPs. It's given us a new lease of life and we're fucking enjoying ourselves so goddamn much!

Vulnerable are:

Raymond Holt (vocals, guitar, bass)
Martin Faulkner (vocals, keyboard, programming)
Andrew Donaldson (programming, noise) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vulnerable">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.