Vulvagun is a band formed by vocalist/guitarist Wayne Dwyer, known for his work in Melbourne metal bands like Sea Wolf, Captain Trips and Wizard Sleeve to name a few. He is joined by Chris Phillips, Evan Harris and George Larin, who are some of the most repected players in the Australian metal scene.  Together they have created an album in "Cold Moon Over Babylon" that is one of the most anticipated debuts in years.  The album itself comprises of 12 tracks of blistering metal crossing a landscape of history, mystery and bloodshed and is destined to become a classic.

Wayne Dwyer says, *"We've decided to do things a little differently to what we've all been used to in the past...  usually, a band comes together, writes some songs, develops a style, rehearses, plays some gigs and then contemplates recording an album; a time consuming and expensive task to say the least.

"In the case of Vulvagun however, we started with a vision and then got to recording right away, capturing the songs as they were written, fresh out of the tank and right onto tape.  They were also pretty much mixed as they were recorded and tweaked as we went along.  We did this because, for us, the idea of a new band was just that: brand new.  We wanted to bolt straight out of the gate with an album.  No messing about, no building up a reputation in the traditional sense and going through the motions.  Just get it out there.  Technology affords us the luxury of approaching this in a new way.  The idea of dragging ourselves through the mud like we've done time and time again was just not an option this time around - or at least, we didn’t give ourselves that option.  For us, this is the big one and we want to do it right and have a product that stands up against (and alongside) the best Metal on the planet.  We think we've bottled lightning with this album.  

"As far as the album itself goes, this is not a concept album - it's a 'themed' album, with a string of ideas and stories revolving around a central idea.  We think that each song will stand up on its own and that there is a definitive 'vibe' running through from start to finish.  There's no need to follow a narrative, and the lyrics are ambiguous enough that you will find your own meaning within many of them.  'Cold Moon Over Babylon' is the first of a run of (hopefully!) three albums that will each have their own theme but will tie in together as one larger movement.  There's so much more music to come.  Music, art, science and history...  There's so much to be inspired by." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vulvagun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.