Vyzj is one-man instrumental atmospheric metal project from Moravian Wallachia (Czech Republic) and was formed in 2011.

Demo CD Příchod Zeleného can be downloaded in full quality at official website, www.vyzj.cz.

“Hea­then soul, known under the name of Vyzj, comes from moun­tain­ous coun­try full of leg­ends, tales and mys­te­ri­ous places from the ages of our ancient Slavic ances­tors. He comes from the land, where the blue fetuses ripe and where the count­less of mys­tic sundry crea­tures lives until today. The nymphs dance in the forests, the war­locks wan­der through the moun­tains, on the hills there are snig­ger­ing spir­its, in every stream there is a water sprite, in the evenings there lurk the twi­light witches in the town and the lit­tle lights of torch­bearer flicker through meadows. ”

Vyzj is one-man project from Mora­vian Wal­lachia, founded in the begin­ning of 2011, how­ever a few pieces were com­posed already dur­ing the 2010.  The first song, which was made, was called Temná Noci (“Dark Night”). It was a song, which expressed the beauty and the mys­tery of the nights. Sim­ply and atmos­pher­i­cally.  Sev­eral other pieces were in those time still unfinished.

Then the autumn of the 2011 came and the pieces for the upcom­ing demo were fin­ished. It was the right time to start recording.

The demo was sup­posed to be com­pleted already on the win­ter sol­stice of the same year, but it was post­poned very much cause of not hav­ing enough time to do it. So the begin­ning of 2013 became the cru­cial. Demo CD called “Pří­chod Zeleného” (“Com­ing of the Green”) was finally fin­ished and avail­able to down­load for free. Although the plans with this stuff were quite dif­fer­ent and although it was sup­posed to include vocals as well, in the end the demo is just what it is — (only) instru­men­tal. How­ever it’s not exluded (er and it’s really pos­si­ble) that one of the songs could get its vocal part some­day in the future. As the title and cover of the CD say, topic of the demo is an ancient sym­bol — the face, known as “Green Man”.

Plans for future are totaly clear. At the moment I’m work­ing on my debut album, which will be called:  “Vizú světlo!” (“I see a light!”). Its main topic will speak about an old leg­end — the foun­da­tion of Vyzovice — my homeland. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Vyzj">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.