WC was born in New York City during 2003. The band chooses the controversial name "WC" in an effort to contradict the glamorous and fashionable situation flooding the world of modern music.

On July 2007 Sterling Sound in New York chooses WC's "Ashes" to be featured on "Sterling Sound's emerging artists player" an honour that places WC among the best newcoming bands worldwide.

Their debut album "WC" is released by Legend Records on December 10, 2007 throughout Greece and Cyprus.

The initial line up (2003) consisted of Wastor (Vocals, Guitars, El.Violin), Amanita (Drums, Vocals) and bassist Kevin Hummel. During the following 2 years they colaborated with various bands and performed in various clubs around the NYC area including CBGBs and the Barracuda. The band's sound during that time was heavily inspired by the nu-metal and industrial-metal scene. They recorded a four song promo CD that included "Mr. Pink" a song that attracted the interest of Daniel Glass of Artemis Records, one of the largest independent labels in NYC.

2005 finds Wastor and Amanita returning to Athens Greece, while they begin recordings for their first album in the Greek language. The band's sound evolves towards a darker Gothic sound and they release the song "Ou Foneyseis" ("Thou shall not Kill") featuring Georgia Kefala (Mple) on vocals, and their first video clip "A.M.Y.M" directed by Constantine . WC used both songs along with the ballad "Keri" ("Candle") to compose the soundtrack for the theatrical play "Dinner in the first degree" which enjoyed a big success in the downtown Athens theatrical scene. At that point the band was accompanied by touring partners Ravaja (guitars) and KK (bass) of the greek metal band "Need".

WC's aggressive sound along with their heavily inspired by gothic imagery stage image, attracted the interest of L. Mahairitsas (a Greek platinum selling singer). The result of WC's collaboration with L.Mahairitsas was the song "Falaina", released by Minos-EMI Greece, and presented live in Thessaloniki, on a show aired on "NET" (National Greek Television) that watched more than half a million people.

In February 2006, WC return to their initial trio form, with the addition of Johnny Ray on el. bass and on May 2006 they play live presenting at the same time the film "Atom's Apple" to the greek audience. "Atom's Apple" is a Frank Villegas film featuring WC's Amanita, which has been first screened in the Brooklyn Film Festival, and deals with violence in the modern world vs. the beauty of art. A rather "hard to watch" spectacle suitable for those with a "strong stomach" as it features numerous un-edited, (and previously censored) scenes of war along with acts of violence of modern "peacemakers" from around today's world.

WC's debut album "WC" released Dec 20, 2007 and is a "bi-lingual" album having versions of their songs both in Greek and in English. Within 2 weeks WC hit the Greek charts and the media praises its release in their critics. 

http://profile.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=user.viewprofile&friendID=139693422 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/W.C.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.