W.E.B. were found in 2002, Athens, Greece. The band plays music deeply influenced by the "dark side" of metal. It can be defined as atmospheric metal mixed with a variety of Goth and Black metal along with some heavy riffs, sensitive melodies and some stroke of classical music. All these dressed up with sorrowful and depressive erotic lyrics.

W.E.B. have given numerous live performances in Greece in several cities including Athens, Thessaloniki, Patra, Heraklion of Crete and Megara. The band has also made two shows outside the Greek borders in Sofia Bulgaria and in Istanbul Turkey. Amongst these gigs they have shared the stage with Rotting Christ, Orphaned Land and To/Die/For. W.E.B. are also known for the show they give onstage with nude female dancers and fireworks. All live performances so far have received very positive comments by the press and the people.

The band had also the chance to have really important airplay times both on tv and radio as Hakos Pervanidis has hosted three interviews of the band on his show TV-WAR on MAD TV channel until now and their video clip for the song Cockroach has been broadcasted several times by the same show. Also the group experienced the honour to have airplay on the radio by producer Giannis Petridis through his radio show on NET 105.8FM for the song Ghost of Silence.

W.E.B.’s material has been published through several compilations starting from the Greece Attacks - The Next Assault compilation CD out by Sound & Vision Records in October 2004, Enter the Hellenic Metal Rebellion issued by Greek Rebels webzine (www.greekrebels.gr ) on November 2005, Archangel II issued by Bloodcult fanzine on January 2006 and also on the split-EP with Sad Wings out by Music Forward and Rock On Magazine in July 2004. Soon to be released another compilation with a W.E.B. song by Sleaszy Rider Records, The Ultimate Collection.

The band has just released the debut album "Don’t Wake Futility" through Sleaszy Rider Records (distributed worldwide by EMI). The album so far has received impressively good reviews by the press (Metal Hammer Greece 8,5/10, Greek Rebels 4/5 and still counting). Also the Greek Metal Hammer honoured the band by making them a cover on Horror (Metal Hammers index) on the January 2006 issue.

In May of 2008 the band releases their second album entitled "Jesus Heist" which was recorded in Bar.Kode.Production Studios - Greece and mixed in Fredman Studios – Sweden by Fredrik Nordstrom guitarist of heavy metal band Dream Evil and famous for his work as a producer of Dimmu Borgir, In Flames, Septic Flesh, Arch Enemy etc. The mastering of the album is done at Taylor Maid Studios in Stockholm, Sweden. The artwork is done by Natalie Shau (Lacuna Coil, Poisonblack, The Duskfall etc)  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/W.E.B.">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.