Klaus Waldeck's musical career started in Vienna, Austria when he took piano lessons at the age of six. When he was fifteen his music life was put on hold when he destroyed a Bechstein piano while rewiring it.

Waldeck later went to law school (though his heart was still with music). He finished law school and became a copyright lawyer. Then he heard about a case that changed his focus from law back to music.

    "It was during the time when George Harrison got sued for ripping off an old Motown tune," Waldeck recounts, "I realised the way forward was to work a melody until it didn't belong to anyone anymore."

He eventually stopped focusing on law altogether and concentrated on music.

Soon after his decision to leave law completely he moved (along with all of his electronic music equipment) to England. While in London, he met his vocal counterparts, former Incognito singer Joy Malcolm and Brian Amos, who worked on projects such as Pressure Drop. The three have been with each other ever since.

In 1996, Waldeck returned to Vienna, Austria and produced the Northern Lights EP, quickly gaining international attention through its biggest hit, Aquarius. A successful full length album, Balance of The Force, followed in 1998. Later that year, Balance of the Force - Remixed was released.

Waldeck has produced a multitude of albums while still in Austria. Unfortunately, however, many of them are out of print and are very scarce. The out of print albums include The Night Garden Reflowered, Balance of the Force, Balance of the force Remixed, Northern lights, and This Isn't Maybe.

Sometimes described as trip-hop Klaus's songs have a very calm and laidback theme. They often consist of mellow vocals sung either by Joy Malcolm or Brian Amos (although sometimes they consist of only Klaus's instrumentals). While some people have mixed feelings towards the male-female vocal fluctuations, others feel that they offer versatility in the sound while still maintaining the unique style of his music. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Waldeck">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.