Walk Off the Earth is an indie rock band which formed in Burlington, Ontario, Canada in 2006. The band consists of Gianni Luminati, Joel Cassady, Sarah Blackwood, (former) Mike Taylor and (former) Ryan Marshall. Blackwood was also a member of the psychobilly band The Creepshow.

The band has gained success around the world by making low-budget music videos of covers and originals and built their fan base independently with no help from record labels, booking agents or management. On February, 2012, the music industry publication Crazed Hits reported that the band had signed a recording contract with Columbia Records.The band is best known for their covers of popular music on YouTube, making use of uncommon instruments such as the Ukulele and the Theremin, as well as looping samples. The band's recorded music and videos are produced by member and multi instrumentalist Gianni Luminati.

The band's first album,  Smooth Like Stone On a Beach was released in 2007. Their second, My Rock was released in 2010. The band third album, R.E.V.O. was released in March 2013, and the album Sing It All Away was released in 2015.

On December 30th 2018 the band announced on social media that Mike Taylor had passed away. 

Despite the sudden passing of their friend and band member Mike Taylor, the band continued their worldwide tour in 2019. 

May 24th they released  Mike's Song, as a tribute to their late member. 

 I'll Be There was the first single released from their new album HERE WE GO!. The song was added to several popular Spotify playlist and quickly gained millions of streams. 
In support of their new album the band did a small promo tour doing interviews and acoustic sets at several radio stations across America and Canada. 
HERE WE GO! was released on october 25th. 

Only months after their latest album got released the band announced that Ryan Marshall would part ways with the band.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Walk+Off+the+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.