There is more than one artist know under this name. 

1) Future soul singer and songwriter Wallace Gollan resonated with music at a young age. With a background in traditional jazz, a father whose heavy penchant for blues influenced Wallace’s own musical inflection, and a natural pull towards hip hop and soul, Wallace’s music is an exciting mosaic combination of all of the above. She possesses a type of sound others have labeled in the vein of Erykah Badu, Little Dragon or Carmen McRae and Sarah Vaughan.
What sets her apart is her truly unique voice and immense charisma. Wallace applies her multi-award winning jazz trained licks and intonation to create a rich layer of distinct harmonies causing heads to turn. Wallace is the type of artist that forces everyone in ear and eye shot to stop an pay attention. 
Having only released 5 singles, Wallace is fast establishing herself as an artist to watch. Some of her most notable achievements to date include the numerous awards she won in her early years in New Zealand; a swag of glowing reviews from international taste makers and publications; high profile international supports such as Slum Village; winning the JJJ unearthed Listen Out slot for Sydney; high profile playlist adds on spotify and collaborations with acclaimed international acts such as Kraak and Smaak and outstanding Australian peers such as Sampa the Great. 
With a couple of deals recently falling into place, WALLACE is most definitely an artist to keep a close eye on in the coming 12 months. 

2) Wallace is a band from Germany. The guy are rocking the scene for more then six years now, and since that time they are trying to spread their meaning of emotional hardcore and indierock across the world. Calm dreamy guitarparts meet raging voiceeruptions and drifting songstructures. In the last three years Wallace played over 50 concerts in Germany and Austria and they shared the stage with bands like Standstill, Koufax, The 101, Enliven, Baal, Lockjaw, Always Outnumbered or the Lovely Minnie`s from Italy. Be prepared when the Wallace rockmachine is coming to your town, because they play fast and hard and leave the stage burning behind them.
More info:
http://www.wallace-rock.de
http://www.myspace.com/wallacerockgiants

3) Alternative punk band from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
https://wallace.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wallace">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.