Walter Giardino Temple (also known as Temple) is a musical project of Argentine guitar virtuoso Walter Giardino.

The band formed in 1998 following the dissolution of  Rata Blanca  and the project was halted in 2000 after Rata Blanca regrouped. The first line-up was Norberto Rodriguez on vocals, Martin Carrizo on drums, Pablo Catania on keyboards and Ruben Trombini on bass. The group also released an album called "Walter Giardino Temple" with 10 songs, among which include the single "Corte Porteño. The drummer Martin Carrizo (former A.N.I.M.A.L.), left the band shortly after recording the album to work with Gustavo Cerati, and was replaced by Fernando Scarcella. The debut album was well received and performed several concerts in the provinces and Buenos Aires.

After some discussion after a recital in which Giardino not let the musicians go up to play "Burn" with Glenn Hughes arguing that they did not know how to play properly, they decided to leave Giardino and form the band " Quemar" (Spanish from Burn) with which they released an album. One of the guest musicians was Adrián Barilari (current singer of Rata Blanca). Then the tour of South America was joined by Hugo Bistolfi on keyboards and Guillermo Sanchez on bass (both members of Rata Blanca), which resulted in the return of Rata Blanca. Sergio Berdichevsky and Gustavo Rowek (the other historical members Rata Blanca) did not accept, preferring to continue with their project " Nativo". Because of this Giardino decided to reform the band making a quintet, with just him on guitar, Fernando Scarcella turn held the position of drummer. In his final concerts as Walter Giardino Temple, the band had presented some new tracks like "Revancha" and "La Gran Batalla" (which appears to be part of a new album by Temple in the future).

Walter Giardino made live appearances with the Spanish group Mägo de Oz following the departure of the members of Temple. In 2010 Rata Blanca made presentations in English with former Rainbow singer Doogie White, he sang songs in English from Temple as Corte Porteño renamed as Crushed Memories. 

On September 2012, Giardino reactivate Temple to bring concerts tribute to Deep Purple, Rainbow and Yngwie Malmsteen's Rising Force with Joe Lynn Turner. In 2016 Giardino and Turner were touring South America (Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay and Bolivia). The line up for this shows were Fernando Scarcella (drums) Pablo Motyczak (bass) Javier Retamozo (keyboards). Javier Barrozo was invited as vocalist of Temple's original songs.

In November 2017, Giardino presented Ronnie Romero as new vocalist of Temple. The band toured 17 dates in Europe (Spain, England, Scotland, Germany, Czech Republic) and South America (Argentina, Bolivia and Chile).

Current line-up
Walter Giardino - Guitars - (1998–2000, 2012, 2016 - 2017)
Ronnie Romero - Vocals - (2017)
Fernando Scarcella - Drums - (1999–2000, 2012, 2016 - 2017)
Javier Retamozo - Keyboards - (2016 – 2017)
Pablo Motyczak - Bass - (2012, 2016 – 2017) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Walter+Giardino+Temple">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.