WANTED  is the name of more than one artist/group:

1. WANTED started in 1988, when long-time friends Kenny James and Jeffrey Lane picked up and relocated from South Florida to the streets of L.A.  Friends for nearly a decade, Kenny and Jeffrey found themselves clear across the country and smack dab in the middle of the glitz n' glam of Hollywood.  In fact, they did it Hollywood to the core by grabbing up Mötley Crüe's  legendary old apartment at Clark Street 205 where they kept the party rolling.  Where Motley left off, WANTED picked up.  SEX, DRUGS, ROCK n' ROLL, Girls, Girls, Girls, movie stars, a respectable woman or two and tons of freaking strippers! 


Within four months time, the two friends enlisted John E.K. to handle the bass duties.  However, the first actual show would not come til many months later in March of 1989.  The band was fighting their way through the growing pains of being a new band and writing new material, but something was still missing.  Enter drummer Stevie Schaaf in the summer of 1989 and the band finally felt "Right".  This is the WANTED that everyone came to know and love, and a band who seriously dedicated themselves 24/7 to consuming the music, the lifestyle, and a point in time that will never ever be replicated again.


WANTED was a fun band.  WANTED was a dedicated band.  And while mostly light-hearted when it came to subject matter, the band did take an opportunity or two to touch on some serious subject matters like gangs, drugs, and other social issues as is evident in the song "Look At All The People". 


WANTED plays melodic, upbeat, hard rock n' roll!!!  What else were you expecting?  Drummer Stevie Schaaf maybe sums it up best by stating, "We perceive ourselves as WANTED.  Nothing more, nothing less."

"WANTED...Wants You!" read the flyers posted up and down the strip on Sunset Blvd.  And that's what WANTED got.  Fans flocked in droves every time WANTED had a show.  Why?  Because with WANTED, the fan didn't get the same old stale, over-rehearsed show that some of their counterparts had become accustomed to.  It was all about improvisation, living in the moment, and making the most out of each of those moments.  WANTED never took anything for granted and lived life on the strip to the fullest...and then some!


WANTED took their craft seriously.  Their work ethic was second to none and they didn't tolerate any lack of dedication, whether it be within their own inner circle or the bands that they would regularly perform with.  From the perfected pretty boy look straight down to the denim and leather rock n' roll garb to well-crafted music that rivaled any of their contemporaries, the band was focused on the prize as they saw all their friends in Poison, Warrant, and L.A. Guns score that coveted recording contract.  And as we hear all to often, it (the being signed to a major label) was well within their grasp and then that damn lumberjack wearing Seattle-grunge shit came out of left-field and took over the hearts and minds of those who were to follow Generation X.  The next "Big Thing" was taking shape and it surely didn't include those pretty boy, make-up wearing, big hair bands who actually gave a shit about giving the fans an exciting show to remember....let alone a show at all.

In closing, lets heed the oft-uttered words of lead singer Kenny James, "Work hard, play hard, and Rock n' Roll."

Wanted is:

Kenny James - Vocals
Jeffrey Lane - Guitar/Piano
John E.K. - Bass
Stevie Schaaf - Drums

2. Wanted (Hangul: 원티드, consisting of leader Kim Jae Suk, members Ha Dong Kyun and Suh Jae Ho and producer/composer Jeon Sung Hwan, first debuted in 2004 under M-Boat Entertainment with the album Vol.1 Like The First. Their leading single from their debut album 발작(發作) Baljag (Reaction), was reasonably popular and received considerable airplay and Wanted was invited to perform the song at numerous occasions. Having a unique balance of a high, clear voice (Jae Suk), a strong pleasant voice (Jae Ho), and a husky, powerful voice (Dong Kyun), they were touted as one of the hottest newly debuted groups.


However, not long after their debut, Wanted met with a severe car crash. Suh Jae Ho unfortunately passed on, and Kim Jae Suk was left in a coma with massive injuries. Ha Dong Kyun and Jeon Sung Hwan were lucky to escape with minor injuries. Wanted's activities were thus suspended while bandmates and fans alike mourned for Suh Jae Ho. Kim Jae Suk recovered from his coma and had to spend a long time recuperating and treating the scars left from the accident. In between 2004 and 2006, there was no activity from any of the Wanted members. Ha Dong Kyun occasionally worked for one or two drama OSTs and Wanted seemingly had disbanded. 


In 2006, Ha Dong Kyun surprisingly released his Vol.1 Stand Alone which garnered attention and reintroduced him to the music scene. His album enjoyed reasonable success for a new (he was considered new) artiste. Kim Jae Suk, recuperating from his injuries, expressed his desire to sing again. 


In 2007, Wanted then announced their second album. Reunited with 7Dayz bandmate Lee Jung, Wanted's Vol.2 - 7Dayz & Wanted was released in July 2007. Lee Jung, former bandmate of Suh Jae Ho, Jeon Sung Hwan and Ha Dong Kyun in 7Dayz, had remained good friends with his bandmates even after disbanding and had decided to participate in the album as a tribute to his much-missed friend. Staying true to their R&B-esque roots, the album has powerful ballads such as I Promise You and more light hearted tracks such as Wonderful Day. Epik High also participated in the album. 

In 2012 they released their third album "Vintage".




3. WANTED burst onto the Indianapolis hard rock scene in the early 90’s with a blend of memorable hooks and in your face vocals. Sharing the stage with talented local acts such as Sweet F.A., Schoolboy Crush, Ma Kelley, Snakeskin Cowboy, Felony, and Nova Rex, WANTED had become a Midwest favorite.

WANTED was made up of five very talented musicians from all over America. Bobby Sisk, a multi-talented musician from Miami, Florida, began his musical career at age 9 when he started out playing piano, guitar, and drums. At age 23, Bobby finally found himself in WANTED making a name for himself as a premier vocalist for an up and coming band. Scott Cole, an experienced rock drummer, started at the age of 14 in Dayton, Ohio. Scott had quite a bit of experience being on the road and felt at home behind the drums. Eric "Cruise" Saylors, one of the two guitarists, originally from Kokomo, Indiana, began playing at age 15. After playing in several different bands, Eric met guitarist Tadd Wilson, originally from Rodchester, Indiana, and began to form WANTED. With Tadd’s natural guitar ability and Eric’s seasoned writing skills, they made a fantastic guitar duo. Erikk D. Lee originally from Indianapolis, Indiana, started out playing the drums, but went on to play the bass at the age of 16. Erikk was responsible for pounding out the memorable low notes during their energetic live shows.

After meeting Bob McCutheon, a well know manager of MCA Recording artist Sweet F.A., many things started to happen for the band. After a couple of months of hard work and preparation with their new manager, it was time to hit the road. From the word go, WANTED opened for two major acts in ENUFF Z NUFF and BAD ENGLISH.

Showcasing for various major record labels paid off when WANTED was offered a label contract with Geffen Records. Tom Zutant and Vicky Hamilton, Geffen Executives, brought WANTED into Cherokee Studios in Hollywood, CA to record "Be Still My Heart" and "Lost in Me Forever". Relationships between the record label and band management dissolved any hopes that WANTED would be signed.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wanted">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.