Imagine a situation where a drummer who loves to apply non-conventional drumming patterns into metal music meets a guitar virtuoso who owes his extraordinary performance to his finger-nail technique, add a singer gifted with perfect pitch and a lethal high-range, top it off with a massive bass player who also happens to be a great producer and you've got... Wardrum!

During the beginning of Summer 2010, drummer Stergios Kourou decided to start Wardrum together with guitarist Kosta Vreto and bassist Kostas Scandalis, following their common urge to play some old school metal. Later, vocalist Piero Leporale from Italy joins in and the team now is complete and ready to work. On September 2010, the band started the preproduction of 10 songs and entered the recording studio. The debut album "Spadework" was produced by Kostas Scandalis and released by Steel Gallery Records on the 20th of April 2011.

Their successful fusion of power metal with unique melodic and prog elements as well as the band members professionalism, focus and high technical skills, showed their strong will to put their mark in the metal world. "Spadework" offered heavy and fast riffs, super melodic vocal lines, outstanding technical guitar solos and a strong tight rhythm section, all packed together in a solid quality sound production, a work made to please all true metalheads, real fans of Judas Priest, Dio, Sanctuary, Conception, Warlord. Strong songs, like the opening track "The Meaning Of Forever", the catchy "Crest Of The Wave", the epic "In Dependence", the fast "Soultrip", or the super catchy, totally acoustic ballad "Turn About", where definitely perfect examples of the skills and the range of Wardrum. Spadework was a very good start, the band was directly rated as one of the most promising Greek bands of all time and was proposed to open for Crimson Glory's gig in Thessaloniki on the 22nd of October 2011. This was scheduled to be the first show and the starting point of the "Spadework Greek Tour".

Three months later band had to stop collaborating with Piero and tried to find a local singer, in order to be more flexible and respond faster on the demands of the band's drawn plan. Soon Yannis Papadopoulos took over the band's frontman position and they entered the recording studio for their second album, "Desolation" released on the 25th of April 2012, exactly one year after the their debut release.

“Desolation” follows the soundpath of the band’s debut “Spadework” in an even more powerful production, with strong, technical songs, lyrical choruses, melodic guitar solos, technical rhythm section, directly establishing the band’s skills and songwriting abilities. The album was produced again by Kostas Scandalis and released by Steel Gallery Records.

The Desolation Tour started on November 2012 and the band had the opportunity to play all over Greece while the most important local Rock magazines (Metal Hammer, Rock Hard) included "Desolation" in 2012's top 20 Albums lists. Three months later, on the annual poll of the biggest Greek metal magazine METAL HAMMER, the readers voted WARDRUM as the 4th Best Greek Band for 2012!!!

2013 was also a quite busy one for Wardrum. The first half was dedicated to the pre-production and release of their 3rd studio album "Messenger", with a small break from the studio to play in two festivals, Ticherock Fest (GR) and Mental Noise Fest (CY). Moreover, they are going to perform on a UK mini-tour, and planning to tour more extensively in Greece and the rest of Europe.

Take a close look at the Wardrum logo and if you see it anywhere in the streets of your town, don't miss the opportunity to check them out on stage. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wardrum">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.