Warganism was born in November 1995, as a metal band in one of the resident quarters of Bucharest (under the initial name - Dies Irae). Radu Iordache and Victor Stoica joined forces with Sorin Stoian and Ioachim Stroe, to bring out the spirit of a new kind of black metal. Even if they were slightly young and inexperienced in the metal scene, the Romanian metal movement was at a start and they grew together with it.

The first period, 1995 - 1996, meant a lot of features at the shows on the local radios and on the Romanian national television. They released a first demo, Dies Irae. Warganism began playing live and loud in the Bucharest clubs, giving a straight and fine raw metal vibe for that time.

The end of 1996 meant the release of the first official material, an EP called “A Perennial Spleen”, edited by Eurostar Music from Bucharest. After this first 5 song release, they toured a while in the country and they played the local festivals as well.

1996 saw the arrival of a new guitarist, Marian Stoenica, who brought new ideas and new inspirations to the band. The next period of time was very flourishing, and the Bestial Records label, from Timisoara, Romania, signed a new contract with Warganism.

They recorded their first LP, “Gargoyles”, in March 1998, in Timisoara. This album is even now, in 2006, a reference point for the Romanian metal scene. Raw in its sound, presenting a different type of black metal, it brought lots of positive comments from all around Europe.

The next period, 1999 – 2000, saw a very strong development of the Romanian metal scene and Warganism took full advantage of it by playing numerous shows all over the country. The first Warganism video, “Warganism”, from the new single with the same name, was released in the summer of 2000 and played on all the major Romanian TV stations like MTV, MCM, TVR, and others. The single contained 2 tracks, and it was self produced. The band become the best known and most respected band on the Romanian metal scene. Since its inception in the fall of 1995, Warganism performed hundreds of shows, festivals (most as a headliner), been on numerous TV and radio shows, been featured in hundreds of magazines and other marketing mediums.

In 2000, as Victor Stoica left for the United States, the band followed other musical avenues, including industrial and trip-hop, also boasting a successful side project – Phobia.

In the end of 2006 the band finally got back together and this time with the clear goal to take their music across the globe. Warganism recorded a single called Shadow boxing and shortly after recorded a video for the same song. In 2006 the band inaugurated its Myspace page (www.myspace.com/warganismband). Today the page has over 80 thousand visitors, their songs were played over 70 thousand times, and the response from the international fans has been astonishing. This also helped the band be featured on numerous international radio shows and webzines.

The story is just beginning. On September 2008, the band officially changed its name to Warganism, and released their new studio album called Centipede, representing the new musical direction that Warganism is currently taking.

Warganism played during the years with bands like Sepultura, Samael, Napalm Death, Behemoth and others and will promote Centipede also with lots of shows in Romania and abroad.

The new album is forcefully promoted through media. The video for Shadow Boxing is broadcasted by MTV and TVR (the national TV in Romania) and two singles (Envy and Live The Unique) were heavily promoted on radios like City FM, Radio Guerilla and Radio Romania. Warganism will soon begin shooting a new video for Envy.

www.warganism.ro <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warganism">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.