There are multiple bands named Warhorse:

1) A band formed in 1970 by ex-Deep Purple bassist Nick Simper.

2) A doom band that formed in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1996.

3) A five-piece psychedelic rock band from Sydney

4)  A band / project formed by Paul Di'Anno in 2022 along with some Croatian friends in Zagreb.

--==--

1. Formed in 1970 around ex-Deep Purple bassist Nick Simper, Warhorse were understandably close to early Deep Purple in their blend of keyboard-colored progressive rock and early heavy metal. The group coalesced when Simper left Deep Purple in 1969 to lead soul singer Marsha Hunt's backing band, which included Rick Wakeman on keyboards for a while. The backing band formed the nucleus of Warhorse, which recorded a couple of albums for Vertigo in the early 1970s. With their early hard rock/metal sounds and a singer (Ashley Holt) who could roll into over-serious, high stentorian vocal phrases, the group have also been compared to early Black Sabbath, although they lacked the hooks necessary to achieve the same level of success as Sabbath or Purple. Echoes of Yes (in the keyboards) and perhaps Uriah Heep can be heard as well. Warhorse broke up in 1973, with drummer Mac Poole joining Gong, and Holt and drummer Barney James (who briefly replaced Poole in Warhorse's final days) going to Rick Wakeman's band. Album releases: Warhorse (1972) and Red Sea (1972). 

2. Warhorse was a doom band that formed in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1996, and released their eponymous debut album in 1998 (Burden of Being Records) followed by  As Heaven Turns to Ash (Southern Lord Records) in 2001. They officially disbanded in 2005, ironically after releasing the single "I Am Dying" on Southern Lord.

3. A five-piece psychedelic rock band from Sydney influenced by Primal Scream, The Icarus Line, The Stooges, The Fall and the Brian Jonestown Massacre. Consitings of brothers, Jasper (vocals) and Oscar Clifford Smith (guitar), bassist Mikey Watkins, guitarist Louie Roach and drummer Jasper Fenton (also of theredsunband and Dead China Doll) round off the line-up. The band has released their debut EP "Gun$" on local Sydney label, Timberyard Records.

4. Former Maiden frontman Paul Di'Anno, formed a band with several Croatian musicians to form a new project called WARHORSE. They released a single ' Stop The War" / "The Doubt Within'  in 2022. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warhorse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.