Warknife band was formed at the beginning of 2006 in the italian South-East metal underground, from an idea of two musicians: Simone Mele (guitarist) and Cesare Zuccaro (drummer). They always loved extreme metal and wanted to create a sound near their tastes and musical interests; so they started to compose their first songs, strictly linked with american bay area thrash metal, with the addition of melodic and hard rock hints. In the same year they recuited Alessandro Fiore as singer and Ivan Rausa as bassist. With the complete band, Warknife started the live perfomance activity which let the band be known in the local metal scene and over, playing in gigs with international bands, as Gory Blister. In 2007 Fabrizio "Speedking" Rollo took part of the band and with his different point of view, brought a variegated sound to the band. In this way Warknife started the composition of their first homonymous demo, turning to a more death metal sound, with more complex structures and sped up time. 

At the end of the same year the sound of the band has been moulded with the voice of Marco "Sick" Landolfo (also singer of Kronium) who took part of the project instead of Alessandro. Soon after bassist Daniele Gatto took the place of Ivan. In 2008 Warknife had a huge live activity which took the band over regional limits, and, above all, they recorded their "Dream of Desolation" debut album, released in February 2009. Afterwards the band played a lot of gigs around Italy to promote the album, supporting great name of the Italian metal scene like The Modern Age Slavery, Infernal Poetry, Cripple Bastards but also with real international legends of extreme metal like Brutal Truth and Brujeria. In August 2009 Fabrizio left the band and Valerio Pipino (also in No Sec To Lose) became the Warknife lead guitarist.
In the year 2010 Valerio left the band and after this WARKNIFE became a four members line up. 

After the stile of the band had a natural change stile that took influences from Death metal to Post-Hardcore sound. At the beginning of 2013, Warknife recorded their new full-lenght album: Amorphous and they published it in 2014 after they had signed with Memorial Records. The song Ill becomes order has been chosen to become the first Warknife’s music video... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warknife">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.