Warlock is the name for several artists.

1. A heavy metal band from Germany
2. An electronic musician from England
3. A rapper from England
4. A psychedelic band from the United States
5. A hardcore dj/producer active in the mid/late 90's. 
6. A funk'n'roll, rap, hip hop band from Argentina.

--==--
1. A German heavy metal music band from Düsseldorf, originally assembled in late 1982.
Warlock spent most of the year of 1983 playing in different German clubs, eventually building a steady fan base. After recording a demo and sending it to record labels, the band obtained a contract with independent Belgian label Mausoleum.

The "Mark I" line-up (Doro Pesch on vocals, Peter Szigeti and Rudy Graf on the guitars, Frank Rittel on the bass and Michael Eurich on the drums) recorded the albums Burning the Witches (from 1984) and Hellbound (from 1985), making European tours to market the releases. In early 1985, Warlock signed a contract with label Phonogram.  Later that year, in the middle of the tour for the Hellbound album, guitarist Rudy Graf left the band and was replaced by Niko Arvanitis (ex- Stormwind).

True As Steel, released on August 18, 1986, got a fair amount of North American radio airplay due to the hit single Fight For Rock. After this album's release, their first music video for MTV was produced, for the song "Fight For Rock".In August 1986 Warlock opened for the Monsters of Rock at the Maimarktgelände in Mannheim, West Germany when the Scorpions were headlining the all day concert. Def Leppard, Ozzy, MSG and Bon Jovi were also there.

After the tour for the album True As Steel ended, bassist Frank Rittel left, and was replaced by Tommy Henriksen. Guitarist Peter Szigeti also left, giving place to Tommy Bolan (ex-Armed Forces). Warlock then released its fourth album - Triumph And Agony - on September 5, 1987. It would be their last album.

The band proceeded to make its first and sole extensive USA tour - opening Megadeth concerts alongside Sanctuary, and playing several shows on their own with different opening acts, such as Fates Warning, Sword and Lillian Axe. The band split up in December 1987

Drummer Michael Eurich and guitarist Niko Arvanitis were replaced by Bobby Rondinelli (ex-Rainbow) and Jon Levin (currently with Dokken; mislabeled as 'Jon Devin' in Doro's Force Majeure liner notes), respectively. At the end of 1988, Doro Pesch remained the only original member and the only German still in the band. At this time, Peter Zimmermann, the band's ex-manager, sued for rights to the band name and merchandise, and won. Pesch continued to fight for the name, but conceded with record label requests to rename the band DORO in order to continue her career; the first edition of the LP Force Majeure, recorded with the final formation of Warlock, was the last one to expose a sticker with the name of the band next to DORO, with the exception of the compilation Rare Diamonds of 1991. Pesch eventually regained the rights to the name Warlock in 2011, after years of legal battles. Doro is an active band and still performs Warlock songs in their live shows.

Other activities
After his departure from Warlock,  Rudy Graf   joined the German speed metal band  Rage  in 1986 and recorded with them the album Execution Guaranteed. Today he's working as a studio musician and songwriter.   Frank Rittel ,  Peter Szigeti  and former Snakebite drummer Thomas Franke played in 1987 on Animal House, the first solo album by the former Accept singer Udo Dirkschneider. Rittel and Szigeti formed in the 1990s the melodic metal bands Energy and Coracko, without much success.  Michael Eurich formed the band  Casanova with singer  Michael Voss, which was active at end of the 80s.

Doro Pesch reunited with Szigeti, Arvanitis, Rittel and Eurich to perform as Warlock at her 20th Anniversary celebration concert in Düsseldorf on 13 December 2003 and later at Wacken Open Air festival 2004. More legal troubles over using the name Warlock ensued with former member Rudy Graf and appearances of the reunited band at festivals and special concerts were billed as "Warlock 1986".Frank Rittel quit playing bass and retired from the music business in 2004.

Arvanitis and Szigeti played together in late April 2005 at the 'Rock Classic Allstars' show in Bochum, Germany, with Martin Kesici, Axel Rudi Pell, Kai Hoffmann, Jeff Brown (ex-Sweet) and German soccer star Holger Aden.

In December 2008, Pure Steel Records released the first official tribute album to Warlock, titled Tribute to Steel, with the special appearance of the band members.

2. Warlock - Veteran of UK Electronic Music 

3. Warlock is a grime MC from West London. He is part of Rhyming Allegiance and Gritty Committee.

4. American prog/psych band which released one self-titled album on the Music Merchant label in 1972

5. Lars W.A. Op 't Hof is Warlock he uses many aliases back in the mid/late 90's. He had a huge success on Dwarf Records and Babyboom Records.

6. WARLOCK Argentina. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warlock">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.