Warm Digits is the krautophonic blizzard-wave duo of Andrew Hodson and Steve Jefferis, based either side of the Pennines in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and Manchester.  Warm Digits make a semi-improvised brew of metronomic rhythms, snowstorm guitar and radiophonic electronics, dual-laptop electro, swathes of no-wave guitar and frantic free jazz drumming, taking their cue from the hypnotic repetition of Neu!, the textural overload of My Bloody Valentine, the glacial otherworldliness of Emeralds, and the sensuous modernity of cosmic disco; there are hints in the mix too of Eno, Giorgio Moroder and Holy Fuck.  After remix duties for the likes of UNKLE and Maxïmo Park, Warm Digits coalesced these improvisations into a set of crisp, propulsive instrumental songs for their debut album Keep Warm… with the Warm Digits, which is set for release on 5th September 2011, through Distraction Records.

Warm Digits have already pricked the ears of Marc Riley who invited them in for a BBC 6Music session, and David Brewis of Field Music who asked to play bass on their album as a guest.  The live show, recently aired around Europe in support of the likes of Field Music, Goblin, Modeselektor and Barbara Morgenstern, aims for fully engaged sensory overload with a live-mixed collision of colour-coded structural films and live-feed video cameras.

Steve and Andrew have worked in and among the experimental music communities of Newcastle and Manchester since the early 2000s.  Andrew graduated from found-sound collages, to the laptop symphonies of his band, The Matinee Orchestra, releasing an acclaimed album on the Arable label (2006).  Andrew also runs Seed Studios, Trafford, and works as a producer, recently recording and playing drums for Maxïmo Park frontman Paul Smith‘s solo album Margins (2010), and producing Cath and Phil Tyler‘s acclaimed modern folk album Dumb Supper (2008).  Meanwhile, Steve released a string of singles and albums of glitchy, melodic electronica under the name Cathode on Expanding Records, Static Caravan and Distraction Records.

Warm Digits will be touring in October 2011 in support of the release of Keep Warm…, so watch out for their unique live show coming to a venue near you. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warm+Digits">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.