There is more than one band named Warmaster.

1) Warmaster were formed in September 2004. Inspired by bands such as Bolt Thrower, Six Feet Under, Obituary, Warmaster, by then a 2-piece formation, started writing raw, groovy, mid-paced songs, which were well received and gained Warmaster an underground following.By 2005 Warmaster extended the line up and made their live debut. That year was furthermore used to write new and mature the existing songs to create a strong liveset.

In 2006, Warmaster participated on the ‘Gouds Geweld’ and ‘Blown To Pieces Vol.4’ compilations. With some line up changes Warmaster continued their mission and played a lot of liveshows.By 2007 Warmaster decided to record their first full-length cd. In the summer of 2007 Warmaster entered the A.M. Studio and layed down the foundation of what would become ‘First War’. Furthermore Warmaster played more gigs and festivals to secure their built up strong live reputation, with as highlight headlining the Grindabalooza Festival in Germany, replacing Pungent Stench.

In 2008 ‘First War’ will be released. To support the release Warmaster will embark on an extensive European Tour with Jungle Rot. With their raw, groovy, mid-paced old school deathmetal, Warmaster is going onward to enlarge their legion!

Current line-up:
Corné Bijlemeer - Vocals
Marcel Oerlemans - Guitar
Phil Nugteren - Guitar
Alex Schlüter - Bass
André van der Ree - Drums 

2) Warmaster was formed in the Winter of 2012 by Sean "Scrappy" McClellan and Daniel "Fritz" Wilhem. After months of searching, Joshua "Wild" Kovatch entered the fold.
In October of 2012, they recorded and released their first self titled demo. Sean left the band shortly after. In April of 2013, the band recorded their first studio EP (also self titled). Their self titled EP was released on June of 2013, Shortly after adding bassist Chad Mitchell to the fold. Warmaster is being hailed as a great kick back to the old school Death/ Thrash sound. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warmaster">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.