There are several bands with name Warmachine

(1)WARMACHINE is a young 4-piece "old school" Metal band based in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Their musical style consists of catchy melodies with aggressive and energetic rhythms that create a sound that has been found to be very appealing to a wide range of audiences. Their material is honest, contains lots of heart and is viewed as a rebirth of "old school" Metal with a new young face that is more than willing to carry the torch for traditional Heavy Metal music for years to come.

Started in 1994 by Joe DiTaranto (Vocals, lead/rhythm guitar), Mike Miolla as the second lead/rhythm guitarist and a former drummer, the band had had an initial passion to play Metal. From a young age all three members had spent most of their childhood years listening and being exposed to legendary bands such as QUEEN, BLACK SABBATH, VAN HALEN, MEGADETH and METALLICA. Although they had had a hard time finding a good bassist that could keep up to their intense style of playing, WARMACHINE continued to perform and rehearse as a 3-piece band for approximately one year playing live for free in a biker bar outside of the Toronto area. After several auditions in 1997, WARMACHINE had found exactly what they were looking for in a bassist when they discovered Andrea Zanini.

This line-up continued strong for almost two years until their drummer decided to leave because of personal reasons. By late 1998, WARMACHINE decided to look for a new and experienced drummer who would be dedicated to the band. During one of their concerts they discovered a drummer performing with another band named Andrew Zenti. The band auditioned him and found an immediate connection. They confirmed him as their new drummer and to this date this has been the official line-up of WARMACHINE.

Current Line-Up:
Joe Di Taranto - Lead/Rhythm Guitars & Vocals
Andrea Zanini - Bass
Mike Miolla - Lead/Rhythm Guitars
Michael Amaral - Drums

Previous members:
Andrew Zenti - Drums (on "Demo 2001)
Neil Tate - Drums (on "Demolition")

Country of origin: Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Founded: 1994
Status: Active

(2) Warmachine is Detestation without Saira: When she left, the three remaining Detestation members formed Warmachine with a guy named Sakevin (who later was the frontman of Axiom) handling vocal duties and recorded these four tracks (incl. a Resist cover) for a tour 7" for their European tour in spring of 2000. This was limited to only 240 hand numbered copies that included a poster and was released by Consensus Reality. Music wise this is close to Detestation plus the Motorhead-ish feeling and the male vocals.
Warmachine didn't last long, they released a split lp with Yankee Wuss in a limited number of copies and then called it quits, members joined some of the well known Portland bands
That was the short rant...

(3) Warmachine (after the Anti Cimex song) was a swedish d-beat hardcore punk band.

(4) Warmachine is also a French metal band.

(5) WarMachine is also a hip-hop outfit featuring Divine Styler & Miister Sandman. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warmachine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.