There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Warrior is a heavy metal band based in Southern California. Formed in 1982 by San Diego, CA natives Parramore McCarthy (vocals) and the guitar duo of Joe Floyd and Tommy Asakawa, the band quickly made inroads on the L.A. scene when local radio station KMET started to play a demo of the band's soon-to-be signature song, Fighting For The Earth  This led to a contract with MCA Records in America and Virgin subsidiary, 10 Records, in Europe.  Warrior's debut album, Fighting for the Earth, was issued in 1985 and although it failed to attain mainstream success it became what it is still hailed by many as one of the greatest heavy metal albums of all time.  Plagued by record company problems and internal turmoil, Warrior was all but history by early 1987, with Parramore McCarty briefly fronting Rough Cutt before teaming up with former Billy Idol axeman Steve Stevens while Joe Floyd formed Cold Fire with future Megadeth drummer Nick Menza. 

Warrior reformed in 1991 with a line-up that included original members Floyd and McCarty as well as guitarist Roy Z (later to join Bruce Dickinson and Halford) but the band's comeback album, Ancient Future, did not surface until 1998. 2001's The Code of Life was the first Warrior album not to feature McCarty on vocals who had declined to take part in the recording. His replacement was Rob Rock (ex-M.A.R.S., Impellitteri) who had earlier recorded his solo debut album, Rage of Creation, at Joe Floyd's Silver Cloud studio. Roy Z  (Day of Reckoning) and Iron Maiden's Bruce Dickinson (We Are One) both feature as co-writers on the album.  With Rob Rock off tending to his fledgling solo career, Warrior was once again in need of a vocalist for their next album and legendary Maltese born singer Marc Storace of Krokus fame was brought in to lend his pipes to 2004's The Wars of Gods and Men.

In 2008, Floyd reunited with original vocalist Parramore McCarty who brought along San Diego guitarist AC Alexander, with 'The Wars of Gods and Men' rhythm section, bassist Rob Farr and drummer Dave DuCey, remaining on board.  Warrior played their first live show in nearly a decade in April 2008 in San Diego and announced plans for a new album studio album which has yet to materialize but is expected for an early 2010 release. 

Official website: http://www.myspace.com/warriorusa


2) Warrior is an alias of a trance producer Michael Woods. He had several releases as Warrior, but "Warrior" (2000), first released by Radikal Records, became the most popular. His other releases were: "Voodoo" (2001), "If You Want Me" (2002), "X" (2003) and "Yekante" (2003). He also remixed several tracks using this alias.
more on wikipedia http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Michael_Woods_%28producer%29


3) Warrior is a Japanese heavy/power metal band active since 1994.


4) Warrior is NWOBHM band from Newcastle, United Kingdom. They were included on the significant 1981 'Lead Weight' compilation issued by Neat Records, (the first full length record issued by the pioneering label from the North East of England who were considered by many to be the main contributor to the distribution and publication of the nwobhm) with their song Flying High. This Warrior is also known for their singles dead when it comes to love (1982) and breakout (1984) and released an EP 'For Europe Only' (1983).

5) Warrior is NWOBHM band from Chesterfield, United Kingdom. They only ever released one album called Let Battle Commence in 1980.

6) Warrior is NWOBHM band from Essex, Kent. They released Don't Let It Show single in 1982 and best of compilation in 2005. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warrior">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.