Warren Ellis (born 1965, Ballarat, Victoria, Australia) is an Australian multi-instrumentalist and composer;  member of Dirty Three, Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds, and Grinderman; he also score films in partnership with Nick Cave: Nick Cave & Warren Ellis. Originally a Melburnian, Warren now lives in Paris, with his wife and two children. He primarily plays violin, but also piano; bouzouki, guitar, flute, mandolin and programs loops. Ellis is known for his excessive and eccentric, though amusing banter between songs during Dirty Three live shows.

In the early '80s Ellis moved to Melbourne and completed a Dip. Ed. in Music and English. He then spent a few years teaching in secondary schools before resigning; after this he wrote music for theatre groups in Melbourne, and played with several groups and individuals - Charlie Marshall, The Blackeyed Susans, Kim Salmon , Tex Perkins and Dave McComb before he formed, in 1992, the Dirty Three with Jim White and Mick Turner.

In 2002, Ellis released a solo E.P. on King Crab records called Three Pieces for Violin. In 2005 he collaborated with Nick Cave on the award-winning score of the film The Proposition and The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, and recently for the soundtrack to the film adaptation of The Road.

He has collaborated with various artists and groups: Marianne Faithfull - "Crazy Love", "There Is A Ghost" and "Desperanto"; Bryan Ferry - "The Cruel Ship's Captain", Lowlands Low" and "Positively 4th Street". Also plays on the Hal Willner production Rogue's Gallery: Pirate Ballads, Sea Songs & Chanteys and Cat Power' - "Good Woman"; and Primal Scream' - "Hell's Coming Down".


Warren G. Ellis:

There is also a Warren Girade Ellis, a British comic book author, who ended up as an artist on Last.fm after collecting independent music and releasing it in compilations (The Apparat Programme) on his blog.

The latter one even has a user account on Last.fm. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warren+Ellis">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.