Warrant is a glam metal band from Los Angeles, California that enjoyed its greatest success in 1990 with the album 'Cherry Pie'. Spearheaded by frontman Jani Lane, the band's brand of metal was often loud, cheesy, sex-obsessed, and usually delivered with a mischievous sense of humor. The generally lighthearted band became known for raucous party anthems (such as "Down Boys" and "Cherry Pie") but also featured a versatility producing sentimental, melodic power ballads (such as "Bed of Roses", "Heaven", and "I Saw Red").

Formed in 1984, the group endured several line-up changes and soul-searching before coalescing around vocalist Jani Lane, guitarist Erik Turner, guitarist Joey Allen, bassist Jerry Dixon, and drummer Steven Sweet. In January 1988, Warrant signed a contract with Columbia Records. They then released their debut album, which they titled 'Dirty Rotten Filthy Stinking Rich'. Although coming in at the tail end of the 80s pop metal boom, their tuneful rock brought them some critical and commercial acclaim, the album reaching the #10 slot on the Billboard 200 top albums chart.

The band's second record, 'Cherry Pie', was released in March 1990, and spawned the hits "Cherry Pie", "Uncle Tom's Cabin", and "I Saw Red". It reached the Top Ten in the United States, and went on to sell over three million copies. The group found the title song, written by the band under studio pressure with the lyrics literally composed on a pizza box, a 'throw-away' type tune, giving them a commercial breakthrough. Yet their other tracks showed a desire to branch out into diverse subject matter and styles. For example, their southern rock inspired track "Uncle Tom's Cabin" alludes to the famous 1852 novel on racial divisions and features lyrics discussing shocking, covered-up murders while power ballad "Bed of Roses" discusses a romance beset by poverty and struggles reminiscent of Bon Jovi's "Livin' on a Prayer".

Through riding high after their multi-platinum success and passionate touring, the band found itself in the middle of the rise of alternative music in the early 90s. In 1992, Warrant released 'Dog Eat Dog'. The record, an attempt by the band to evolve in the face of changing musical trends, received some critical acclaim but achieved only moderate commercial success. Single "Machine Gun", the title alone showing the change in direction, still managed to reach the top 40 rock charts. 

After this, the band would begin a long string of member changes, including even singer Jani Lane leaving the band briefly. Lane achieved some small success producing work without the group, doing some covers of other hard rock and metal bands. He would then return before the band released 'Ultraphobic' in 1995 and 'Belly to Belly, Vol. 1' in 1998. These were released on a smaller label and featured a new darker sound. Neither album would remotely come close to the success of the earlier albums. A live album and an album of re-recorded classic tracks as well as an all-covers disc, titled 'Under the Influence', followed these.

Jani Lane would once again leave the band in 2004. Ironically, all the other original members would return to the band the same year. Vocalist Jaime St. James, known for serving as the frontman of Black 'n Blue, would take over as singer. In 2006, Warrant released 'Born Again', which was their first album to not have Lane on vocals.

On May 12, 2017, Warrant released their ninth studio album, Louder Harder Faster with their new and current vocalist, Robert Mason, <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Warrant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.