There are more than one artist named Wash

1) R&B vocalist Wash came on the scene in 2014 mixing traditional singing styles with more of a hip-hop flavor. The Port Arthur, Texas native first introduced himself by uploading his R&B cover versions to video-sharing sites. His background in gospel singing combined with the ability to drop modern hip-hop slang caught the interest of producer and songwriter Chef Tone, who brought Wash into the AyeGirl family in 2013. Wash was signed to Interscope through AyeGirl in 2014. His single "Can't Trust Thots" arrived that same year and featured French Montana.

2) Wash is the pseudonym of Ethan Culican, a Leeds Based musician. writing and recording for years he finally released music to world in 2013. First the Nova Scotia/Grains virtual 7" with band Rosa, shortly followed by the 4 track WASH EP consisting of self-produced demos,

3) Wash (1996-2005) originated from the surf beaches of Tauranga (now based in Auckland), New Zealand. 
In 1996, the first E.P titled 'sandjacket' was released. It was produced by the band, and the 8 songs were recorded at Villa Studios in Rotorua, New Zealand. 

Their second E.P release surfaced in 1998, and like the title suggests - 'a short film' - it was designed as a limited edition release with all 500 copies selling out very quickly. This release was produced by David Lichens (Nashville, USA) and was recorded at Chapel Studios in Auckland, New Zealand. 

'Epilogue' has been their first commercial CD release. It was once again an E.P, was released during September of 2000, and featured their 3 radio hits 'Shape', 'Sunbleed', and 'Who Am I'. It was produced by Darren Poole (Out of Proportion Productions), and was also recorded at Chapel Studios. 

In 2002, WASH signed directly with Hydrogen records from New York. This is a huge ahievement, with the band making NZ history as the first band to sign a US deal without having a NZ record deal. 

Wash have performed headline and support shows at numerous venues around New Zealand including Big Day Out 2000, 2001, 2003, Parachute Festival, 'The Party' Paihia 2000 - 25,000 attendees, Napier 2002, The Oracle (formerly The Powerstation), Auckland Town Hall, The Kings Arms, plus venues all over the country. Support slots have included Linkin Park, Jebadiah and Tadpole. 

In April 2003, WASH took on their biggest project to date - an 18 week National High Schools Tour, hitting 75 schools from Invercargill to Kaitaia (check out the schools tour section of this site for a glimpse of the mayhem). This tour was a huge success and lifted both the profile and the fan base of WASH to new heights. 

21st February 2005 saw the official release of WASH's highly anticipated debut album 'ninefivezerofive'. The album boasts a huge 13 tracks including the singles 'Feel the Sun' 'Survive' 'Flow' and 'Walk Away' plus 8 bonus tracks including band classics such as 'Shape' 'Who Am I' and 'One Step Closer'. 

The album is to be joined by the release of a single and video to radio and television for the bands new song 'Trapped'. 

On the 31st March 2005 Wash officially disbanded.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wash">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.