There are twelve artists with this name:

1) 
Wasteland is a hardcore band from Western Massachusetts that formed in 2005 and split in 2010. They released a self titled 7" EP and posthumous self titled 12" LP on Clean Plate Records. Members went on to play in Aerosols, Relics, Soul Control, Foxfires, No Trigger, Suburbanite, Mean Man's Dream, and Won't Belong. They toured with Ampere, Verse, Have Heart, Killer Fiction, and Backstabbers Inc during their existence.

2) 
Wasteland is a hardcore punk band from Hamilton, New Zealand. 

Formed in 2007 and still presently active, Wasteland has supported a number of international bands including Converge, Trash Talk, Ampere, Born/Dead on their New Zealand tours.

Wasteland have two demo recordings and in 2009 released a split 7" record with Ohio band "Disconnected" entitled "Mad Blasts of Chaos - Vol I"


3) 
Wasteland is a collaboration between New York’s I-Sound and London’s DJ Scud.

4) 
Wasteland is a Thrash Metal Band from Germany.

5) 
Wasteland is a black metal band from Birmingham, UK.

6) 
Wasteland is a Heavy Metal band from Uppsala, Sweden.

7) 
Wasteland is a black metal band from China.

8)
Wasteland is an athiest/thrash/power violence band from Newcaslte, Australia

9)
Wasteland is a Gothic Rock band from Italy, circa 1995-1996

10)
Wasteland was a British punk and power pop influenced rock quartet that was active in the late 70s and early 80s. They had two singles, "Leave Me Alone" and "Want No Ego". They attracted some attention for having a female lead singer, an oddity among the punk scene, with a dramatic flair somewhat akin to Kate Bush.

11)
Wasteland was a postpunk/indie five piece band that formed in Athens, Greece in 1989. They released one album, the mini-LP Dream Drops, and two singles,  Moon on Fire and  Move.

12)
Wasteland is a mathcore/chaotic hardcore band from Richmond, Virginia. Formed in 2009.

13)
Wasteland is a boy band that was formed on The X Factor 2013 in Denmark. Their first single, 40.000 Feet Off The Ground, was released on March 22 2013. The group consists of Anton, Anders, Frederik and Marius. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wasteland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.