NEW ALBUM 2016 IS OUT NOW! - "WASTED HEROES" (LP) 
CHECK OUT HERE:  ~ Wasted Heroes (LP, 2016) ~ 

  Wasted Heroes is a metalcore / modern melodic death metal band from Kharkov, Ukraine.

  Initiated in 2008 by vocalist/guitarist Igor Kruglik the band currently released 2 full-length albums and several singles and EP,

  Official site: http://wastedheroes.org.ua

~ BIO ~

  Wasted Heroes are Igor Kruglik (vocal, guitar),  Andrew Ivanov (guitar), Ivan Zhyla (drums), Nick Rykhlyuk (bass), Sergey Bulavik

  Official foundation date is 23th of March 2009 when the first stable five-piece line-up was competed: Igor, Andrew, Ivan, Kirill Myroshnitchenko (guitar), Nickolay Rykhlyuk (bass).  After several months of rehearsals the first demo compilation was released which makes a good impact for future. The band started perform concerts and work on the full length album.

  In spring of 2010 all the materials for the LP were ready and Wasted Heroes came to the Morton's studio to 
record it. The work went very productive and in the middle of the summer 2010 the single "Keep It In Your Arms" and later the debut full length album "Between The Worlds" were released. 

  Soon the band started touring with album presentation visiting ukrainian and russian cities and performing 
with such bands as: Moria, Disquiet, Ungrace, Morton, Jim Jams, Illidiance, Mind Structure.

  In the autumn of 2010 one of the guitarist, Kirill, left the band and Igor took his role along with vocals. 

  Later Nick also left and Dmitriy Shevtchenko (bass) took a place of bass guitarist. With this line-up Wasted Heroes played a few concerts, among others in Moscow, and concentrated more on studio work. It yields new single titled "Serenity Will Come" in the beginning of 2012. But in the summer 2012 Dmitriy also parted with the band.

  In November 2012 line-up was completed by new bass guitarist Dmitriy Himishinets.
  2013 started with recording new EP which has been released on 5th of May. The new release was titled - "Living for the moment" and the band plan to go to their first European tour presenting it.  Wasted Heroes touring map for 16-26th of May includes Poland, Czech Republic and Slovakia.

  During the years 2014-2015 the band was working on a second long-play. The work went productive with the help of a new guitarist Sergey Bulavik. 

  On 31st of January 2016 Wasted Heroes released self-titled album "Wasted Heroes"

  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wasted+Heroes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.