Waterparks is an American rock band formed in Houston, Texas in 2011. The group currently consists of lead vocalist and guitarist Awsten Knight, backing vocalist and guitarist Geoff Wigington, and drummer Otto Wood.

The band has released three EPs, two of which were released independently with one released via Equal Vision. The group released its first full-length album, Double Dare, on November 4, 2016 via Equal Vision.

On November 6, 2015, the band signed with Equal Vision Records. After searching for producers, the band became managed by Benji Madden and Joel Madden. On January 15, 2016, the group released an EP titled Cluster, which was co-produced by Benji Madden. On November 19, 2015, the band performed with Good Charlotte during the group's comeback performance at The Troubadour in West Hollywood, California.

The group performed on the Black Cat Tour supporting Never Shout Never in 2016, and on every date of the 2016 Warped Tour. The band also performed on the End The Madness Tour supporting Sleeping with Sirens in late 2016. They played Slamdunk festival in 2016 and 2017, and went on a headline tour of the UK with support from Chapel and The Bottom Line, selling out all dates. They are set to tour the US in late 2017, with support from As It Is, Chapel and Sleep On It.

The group released a single titled 'Stupid For You' on August 31, 2016 in promotion of its debut album, Double Dare, which was released on November 4, 2016. The album consists of 13 songs including the 3 pre-released singles. On January 26, 2017, the band released their second studio album Entertainment. The album includes 10 tracks including the singles Blonde, Lucky People and Not Warriors. 

You write a record, go on tour, endure a very public breakup, and pen more songs about what happened. Sound familiar? Well, this story sort of starts that way right before it makes a total 180 degree turn on a dime. 
...
Rather than talk about “doing something different", Waterparks actually did. On the heels of
landing their biggest chart and critical success to date on 2018’s Entertainment, the Houston, TX
three piece - Awsten Knight [vocals, guitar], Otto Wood [drums], and Geoff Wigington [guitar] commenced writing again before scrapping everything. They reconfigured the vision,
recalibrated the entire approach, and reinvented themselves. By doing so, the boys boldly
break down walls between rock, pop, punk, hip-hop, alternative, indie, electronic, and even R&B with hashtaggable hooks and a level of gleeful playlist hopping mischief on their third full length and Hopeless Records debut, FANDOM.  They went on a worldwide tour in 2019 and 2020 before covid came.   
                                                                                                                                    
Then in 2020, they signed to 300 Entertainment, a mostly rap music label and started working on their 4th album, Greatest Hits. They released 7 singles before the album’s release, and on May 21st 2021 Greatest Hits was released. They reinvented themselves once again, making an album with influences from genres like Hyperpop (mostly from hyperpop duo 100 Gecs), pop, hip-hop, rock, punk, alternative, indie and even electronic and r&b. Since then, Greatest Hits hast topped charts, gotten 25 millon streams and and has led the band to perform on MTV. Waterparks has also started touring again, doing meet and greet shows in places like LA, NYC, Orlando, Baltimore, Houston, Seattle, Portland and Minneapolis. They also went on a tour called A Night Out on Earth tour last  fall all across America with Zeph, Phem and Arrested Youth (was only opener for 2 shows) as openers.

Then,  they started teasing new music. Awsten started selling an online clothing shop called Hiidef. Then on March 9th it was announced that Parx was going on tour opening for MCR in  Albany, Connecticut, Montreal Canada, both Toronto Canada nights, and the last night of the MCR tour in Los Angeles after Awsten  started posting pictures and stuff about MCR on his Instagram story more that he would.  Later that month, they announced they were going to play Sad Summer Fest from July 8th till August 5th across America with bands like State Champs, Mayday Parade, Hot Mulligan, Neck Deep and more. Then, in May they announced they had signed to Fueled by Ramen which is the same label bands like Paramore, Twenty One Pilots and Panic at the Disco are signed to and released the 1st single of Parx5 called Funeral Grey on May 14th

During June, they went on the See You in The Future tour in Europe with Bad Suns and Phem as openers. They then went on the Sad Summer fest and released Self Sabotage the same day as the 1st show of SSF in Sacramento. A week after starting the SSF tour, they announced they were opening for Blackbear’s Nothing Matters tour in September.

Currently they are not on tour but are opening for MCR on October 17th in Los Angeles and releasing F… About It with Blackbear next Friday <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Waterparks">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.