The death metal band WAYD was founded in the year 1994 when thrash metal band MARION and death metal band DYSENTERY fused together. Both of them were just small bands known only in the regional underground scene as conventional metal bands. However, the very first beginnings of WAYD are connected with the effort to break the borders between the styles, as well as the effort to create more experimental and musically richer compositions. To combine different atmospheres and feelings into miscellaneous compositions have been their most important aim from the beginning, but despite the fact  they have never forgotten to put stress also on energy characteristic for their music. The final product should be compositions in which everybody could find something interesting for himself..

WAYD was set up by Milan Savko (vocals and guitars), Braňo Kóša (drums), Richard Mayer (guitars) and Drahoš Juřík (bass guitar and vocals). Even though these four members stayed faithful to "Wayd”,  some small changes occured in the line-up.

In 1995 WAYD recorded a demo tape named "Shape of  Your Mind” in Prešov in the AD micro Studio. This demo contains 10 songs that are an example of the creation from the beginnings of the group.

Two years later a new material named "The Ultimate Passion” was recorded in the Exponent  Studio and released by Metal Age Production <MAP>. It contains 10 compositions again. However some of the new songs have been enriched by keyboard parts and female vocals. The texts are something like an expedition to the human soul and they talk about the dark side of human life. However in the same time they also talk about common things. They are a reaction to the events of everyday life and a personal revolt against reality.

In 1997 a new member Marián Dráč (vocals) entered the line-up of WAYD. He became the main vocalist. The band performed anumber of shows with him. One year later he left the band.

In 2001 was released by MAP the second album titled Barriers. It contains 11 tracks of  aggressive and technical death metal and was recorded in Perina studio in Prešov. This album also includes alarge number of melodies and saxophone parts. Hovewer, music in this CD preserves real energy and persistent power. Lyrics deal with various themes: life in the subconsciounsness, love and hate, joy and sadness, freedom, passoin, etc... 

The third CD is called Decadance and contains 12 tracks (2 of them are instrumental). It was recorded in Perina studio in Prešov during summer 2002. Some of the compositions on this album have been enriched by sax, trumpets and some guitar samples are used to emphasize atmosphere. Also this material is full of true energy and avant-garde death metal music with 2 vocals. Lyrics are about feeling of joy, hate, sadness, self-realization, darker sides of life. Some of them are about relations between people.

During its existence the band played a lot of concerts in the area of Slovakia, some gigs in Czech Republic, Poland and Germany.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wayd">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.