There are five artists called Wayne:

1) Wayne is an Americana quintet from Birmingham, Alabama made up of Rodney Reaves - vocals and guitar, Michael Swann - guitar and vocals, Kevin Harrison - guitar and vocals, his twin Keith Harrison - bass and vocals, and Jonathan Hornsby - drums and percussion. In the late nineties, they released their first LP, Music on Plastic, independently. This record garnered the attention of local customers of Laser's Edge in Homewood, radio DJ and A&R guy Scott Register, and eventually the Aware compilation put out by Columbia Records, one of which included their song "Letterbox".

The band was shortly picked up by upstart indie label TVT - Default, Sevendust, Southern Culture on the Skids - and soon the single "Whisper" hit Modern Rock radio with a relatively warm reception. Around this time Music on Plastic was rereleased with enhanced packaging and a slightly different track list featuring the additions of "Be This Way," "With Regards," and "Temporary," but conspicuously missing fan favorite "Noose" from the indie pressing. The release was critically acclaimed, conjuring comparisons to Coldplay and R.E.M.

Major label touring forced Keith and Kevin to leave the band and focus on their pre-health studies. They were replaced by Justin Johnson on bass and Rusty Smithson on guitar for the touring band. Highlights of the TVT era include a stint on the short lived Andy Roddick Show on TBS, whereupon the band performed "Whisper" and "Shooting at the Stars" in addition to cooking and playing tennis with the host.

In the early 00s the band amicably ceased performing. They recently reunited for a sold-out show at the WorkPlay Theatre in July of 2008. No word as of yet on whether they plan any more shows in the future.

Keith and Kevin Harrison currently perform regionally as Volant. They have released an ep and plan to step it up further when Keith finishes medical school.

2) WAYNE was one-album project of David Wayne, frontman of METAL CHURCH. Disbanded after Wayne’s death on May 10, 2005.

3) Wayne is also the name of a singer songwriter who release an album called "At Last" which is now regarded as a classic of outsider music.

4) Wayne is a metal band from Cantabria (north of Spain). They have a very peculiar vision of metal, and their music reflects it. They are influenced by a huge range of bands. Their first album was titled "Eve Of Your Revolution" and at the moment are recording their second LP, which will be released by the end of the year, the title: 'The Moon Effect'. This is hoy they describe their sound: "Will Haven meets Foo Fighters".

5) Wayne, most times Wayne Santana (Dark Violo earlier) is the stage name of Umberto Violo, Italian (t)rapper of the trap collective Dark Polo Gang along with Dark Pyrex, Tony Effe and Dark Side.
In 2015 "Succo Di Zenzero" is published, a solo project that includes featurings with Enzo Dong, Sfera Ebbasta and other fellow members of the Dark Polo Gang. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wayne">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.