In the winter of 2007, a group formed in the Twin Cities that had one goal, play the most relentless, most aggressive, most inspired music the five musicians could muster without the fear of genre, boundaries or rules. That band is We are Legion.

Formed under the umbrella of a common love for death metal, the diverse backgrounds of the players was evident right from the get go. Not to say that the death metal genre doesn’t minimally pigeonhole the band to some degree, one only needs to listen to their current full length “The Institution of Disharmony” to hear brutality born across musical lines.

"At first glance, one might assume that this is another trendy deathcore band. Nothing could be further from the truth. While capturing the essence of the sound many kids are into at this point in metal history they are very true to their metal roots. The music is solid, creative, eclectic and well written. From a marketing and promotion perspective, they present themselves with the same level of creativity and originality found in their music. We Are Legion is clearly a band to be taken seriously”-Sideshow Steve, The Root of All Evil” Radio Show. 

The band burst unto the scene in the summer of 2008, with their demo “The Flesh of Gods”, a quickly recorded and mixed project to get out in time for the momentously popular Minnesota festival: Mille Lacs Metal Madness. Abrupt maybe, but the release caught on and was successful at building a core audience for the band.

Shows with the likes of Vital Remains, Krisiun, Into Eternity, A Life Once Lost, and Veil of Maya (among others) proved the band could not only stand on the same stage with today’s newest death metal influenced music, but also that they could hold their own with metal mainstays like Vital Remains, Krisiun and Destruction. 

Their latest offering “The Institution of Disharmony” was conceived under the watchful eyes and ears of Adam Tucker (The Crinn (nuclear Blast), Blue OX, Ambassador Gun (Lost Archives) and is sure to set them apart from other indie label artists.

Zerobudget has caught wind that the band has begun writing for their second full length album already and Legion promises to continue down the vein of growing as musicians while staying true to the core of their sound. In 2009 join the legion, and pick up the “Institution of Disharmony”.
-Zerobudget Records
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/We+Are+Legion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.