We Are Wolves are a Montreal, QC, Canada, rock trio who create free / honest music, like the celestial lightning on the mystic mountain. It’s a post-punk landscape filled with analogue tree, like rock after the post-modern explosion.

Their primitive sound matches perfectly with the band’s name. It’s animal. Rock and electro music fans from The Cramps to Add N to X, it’s at the junction of those two movements that We Are Wolves made their den. In 2005 they released the album "Non Stop Je te Plie en Deux" on the cult American label Fat Possum. The press soon followed with articles in Rolling Stone, Pitchfork, Spin and shows in famous international festivals like Le Rock dans tous ses états, Les Eurockéennes, Dour Festival, SXSW, CMJ, Virgin Festival and Osheaga. We Are Wolves had their first North American tour in Spring 2005 opening for … And You Will Know Us By The Trail of Dead and The (International) Noise Conspiracy. A second one came in 2006 supporting the Gossip as well as solo dates across Canada and the States. They also had a 5 weeks tour in Europe with Montreal act Duchess Says in Summer 2006.

We Are Wolves are now on a Montreal label and introduced their second full-length album “Total Magique” on September 4th and in the U.S on October 2nd 2007. This critically acclaimed album received glowing revues and press in the New York Times, CMJ Report and Spin Magazine. They were also rewarded with the M-Galaxie Rising Star (voted by 35 international delegates), a MIMI (artist with the most international potential), a Bucky Award for Best reason to learn French and 4 nominations for September 2008’s GAMIQ (Artist and Show of the year). Their first video for “Fight and Kiss” directed by Jeremie Saindon was voted buzzclip at Musique Plus, got heavy rotation on the music channels, has been part of International video festivals and has been selected as part of a Montreal Contemporary Art Museum’s exhibition. After more than 50 concerts across Canada and the United States at the end of 2007-beginning of 2008, the trio went on tour twice in Europe to showcase their album. In summer 2008, they were part of the Montreal’s International Jazz Fest festivities and Quebec City 400th Anniversary. 2008 ends with a second tour across Canada and the U.S and a third tour of Europe. They then released “Total Magique” in Europe on Republic of Music.

With the end of 2009 came a new album, “Invisible Violence”, which was undeniably their more ambitious to date. They worked with sound masters Radwan Ghazi Moumneh (Hotel2Tango) as well as Arlen Thompson and Hadji Bakara, from Wold Parade, who they will share dates with during the band’s 2010 spring tour. “Invisible Violence” is as powerful yet chucked full of subtleties, as its name implies: dancy punk walks hand in hand with meticulously crafted melodies. No wonder it’s got rave reviews from print publications and blogs alike, Montreal Mirror quoting that: “There’s a precise moment during Invisible Violence, the latest album from local lupine electro-lovers We Are Wolves, that signals a surprising and welcome evolution beyond their typically reliable barrage of krautrock and dance punk. At 3:25 into “Walking Commotion,” the album’s third track, an acoustic guitar and string section grace what, up until that point, was a recognizably thumping We Are Wolves tune blending aggressive synths and shouted vocals.” By bending the format of their music, We Are Wolves is also changing the shape of things to come. And these things can only be grand.

Sites:  YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/We+Are+Wolves">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.