‘We Are The Damned’ was formed September 2007, in Lisbon, Portugal by Ricardo Correia (Twenty Inch Burial)) and Paulo Lafaia (Painstruck), two old friends who decided to create a project where they could embrace all their favorite bands and blend them into their own creative musical convictions.
 
After hearing about this new band on the scene, Ragingplanet (the leading indie label in Portuguese extreme music) immediately signed the band.

In October 2007 the band were still without a vocalist but within a few days a real diamond was discovered, after a brief audition Sofia Loureiro was asked to come on board and to track vocals on the album and become permanent vocalist and lyricist. 
The bass lines were handled by guitarist Ricardo Correia and the band was ready to go into the studio for a twelve day recording session.
 
Generator Music in Assafora, Portugal was the place the band chose to record in, and with the help of Danish veteran producer Palle Schultz in November 2007, ‘We Are The Damned’ give birth to their debut album entitled "The Shape Of Hell To Come", mixed and mastered at Tweetyhood Studio In Aarhus, Denmark by Palle Schultz.
 
By January 2008 post recording of their debut album ‘We Are The Damned’ quickly prepared for their upcoming live shows, at this point bassist Ruben Vilas (Twenty Inch Burial) was brought in to fill up the position of live Bass duties (since replaced with Raul Vicente (Painstruck)) after three months relentless rehearsing the band was ready to perform live. 

"The Shape Of Hell To Come" was released in March 2008. 

Since then ‘We Are The Damned’ have performed at a variety of shows in their native Portugal, earning many important support slots for bands such as Napalm Death, Suffocation, Cancer Bats, Arch Enemy and Marduk. 

"The Shape Of Hell To Come" quickly caught the attention of both press and public alike, now being pushed further by the band’s relentlessly wild live performances, sheer conviction and determination to leave a permanent mark in extreme music.

In 2009 the band relocated to the UK to begin their march on Europe.

We Are The Damned head out accross the UK on thier debut tour outside of Portugal supporting InMe from April 21st to 26th. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/We+Are+The+Damned">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.