Early 1999 the foundations for WE, THE GODS were made when Biosfear drummer Raymond and former Obtrucation bass player Arjan who started playing guitar formed a death metal band named Cancer Suspected Agent. Not much later CSA changed their style into dark and more doomy metal and not long after that the line-up was expanded with Heidi on bass, Mario on guitar and Richard on vocals. Mario and Richard came from Philosopher, a death metal band. In August they changed their name into WE, THE GODS, after a song by Anathema, and for this occasion a 2-track rehearsaltape named NOS, DEI was recorded. At first recorded with the idea to let our friends hear of the music but with this tape WE, THE GODS got invited to do some gigs in Denmark. In June 2000 WE, THE GODS visited the OtherSide DSE studio at Rockanje (NL) to record the mini-CD "DARK EMBRACE". Containing 5 strong dark/doom metal songs in the vain of van bands such as Anathema, Paradise Lost and Moonspell WE, THE GODS released this self-financed mini-CD in September 2000 with Wim Leydes (ex-Christian Death) playing the keyboards. After Michiel (ex-Dark Rivers Flow) decided to join WE, THE GODS in December 2000 as permanent synthesizer player, guitarist Arjan left the band in April 2001 due to his career which became too hard to combine it with his activities in the band. He was (at first temporarely) replaced by Dark Rivers Flow-guitarist Elwin so that WE, THE GODS didn't have to cancel any of their planned gigs with the new line-up. 13 great gigs followed with bands such as After Forever, Officium Triste, The Wounded and Whispering Gallery... In January 2002 WE, THE GODS split up for some personal reasons in the band. 

Members
Mario Gräber guitar
Raymond Kwisthout drums
Elwin Dekker guitar
Wim leydes(MoD)Keys and Guitar.
Michiel Bartens Keys.
Heidi Assenberg Bass.
Arjan meerkerk guitar.
Richard Noordzij Vocals.

Band website: http://zooi.mb-it.nl/we-the-gods <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/We,+The+Gods">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.