Jonathan “Jonti” Picking (born 17 May 1975), otherwise known as Weebl, is a British Internet personality and flash animator and is the creator of Weebl’s Stuff.

His movies are known for repetitive melodies and surreal dialogue; the majority of them also feature a catchy tune with equally silly lyrics. He does most of the voices in his animations himself, and several feature himself in live action, including “Haricots Verts”, “Chutney”, “Boogie”, “CAMRA”, “Stockmarket”, “We Are Mature”, “Tangerine” the Weebl and Bob episodes “DJ” and “Safety”, the fourth On The Moon episode, and “Jazzmas”. He has also worked with other animators on YouTube, such as Edd Gould in the video “Nuts [Weebl]”.

Picking is a trained sound engineer and artist, and has also worked on 3D visual effects for the movie Resident Evil. In 2003, he made several advertisements for Anchor Butter in the style of his Weebl and Bob animations, but featuring cows. These were broadcast in the UK. The television program Totally Viral on UKTV G2, consisting of video clips and cartoons from the internet, has an animated title sequence and links made by Jonti. Jonti set up his own production company called Sumo Dojo, which he has since left to set up Weebl’s Stuff Limited, also known as Weebl Ltd. Picking married Sarah Darling (a radio presenter on the station Xfm) on 31 March 2007. On 23 December 2008, Picking announced his wife’s pregnancy on the official Weebl’s Stuff forums. On 13 July 2009, Picking’s wife gave birth to a baby girl.

In 2009, Picking produced several radio and television adverts based on the tune of the first “Magical Trevor” for the 118 24 7 service of Yell.com. It appeared on the ITV television channel, amongst others. It was voted 6th Most Irritating Ad of 2009 by Marketing Magazine. He is also an admitted fan of Wesley Willis and he used his music in the cartoon “Merry Christmas”. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Weebl%27s+Stuff">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.