…Somewhere at the beginning of 1997 the circle is being formed. You ask me why? Nobody knows. Even now, through the years, while looking behind I can't find any answer...

Two exalted (or insane?) persons from Minsk, Belarus were seized by the idea. Better to say, there were a lot of ideas but their essences were the same. Metal band should be formed!!! Guys couldn't hide their aspirations from one another. Two more joined... So, the band that had become TWILIGHT next year, contained:

Yegor Chel - lead guitar
Dzianis Holin - rhythm guitar, vocal
Aliaksandr Hliakau - bass
Andrey Koonya - vocal

At once, creative work (I mean songs creating) was "pushed down" at the rhythm-guitarist, so this fact's influence on music was not very positive. The first songs represented an awful sight (in notes) and sounded worse. Any initiative (such occasions were few) and alternative were being thrown off...

The effort to compose music for Yanka Kupala's poem "Kurgan" ("Barrow") was the first really serious deal. "Sickness" was progressing... Exactly in New Year Eve (28.12.1998) tender light of maiden like eyes warmed the cold TWILIGHT. (Earlier, by the way, there was an effort to entice violinists... guys had not the heart to do it.)

17th of March 2001 is the date of the first live concert of TWILIGHT (A-club, Minsk, Belarus). The ghost of the band had been materialized for a moment and... faded away again...

13th of November 2001 became the great turning point. Tatiana Tsvirko (keyboards) and Mikhail Vasilkou (drums) came to TWILIGHT. And problems began to disappear. Rehearsals became intensive. New songs became to be written and then... the name of the band had been changed... a little bit. Now it is WEEPING TWILIGHT.
13th of September 2002: demo "Far From The Assembly Of Gods" release.

22nd of October 2002: WEEPING TWILIGHT passed through listeners' selection and played in Minsk at "MassaBrutto Fest" (organized by MassaBrutto Radioshow - massabrutto@tut.by) with such Masters as ASGUARD (Belarus), EVTHANAZIA (Belarus) and ROSSOMAHAAR (Russia).
The history prolongs... WEEPING TWILIGHT took place at "No Presents For Christmas Fest-3" (organized by Fatal Ecstasy Prods. on the 22nd of December 2002). WEEPING TWILIGHT's great success on "GODS TOWER tribute party" (25th of April 2003, Gomel) makes "MassaBrutto Fest" organizers to invite WEEPING TWILIGHT at "MassaBrutto Fest-3" (25th of May 2003) where the band among its own songs played some hits of Belarusian Metal Legend - GODS TOWER. (By the way, on that gig vocal part was performed by GODS TOWER front man - Lesley Knife.)
Pity but soon WEEPING TWILIGHT parted its way with Denis. And for now WEEPING TWILIGHT line-up is:

Aliaksandr Hliakau - bass, vocal
Vitaly Abramovich  - lead guitars (Neurodubel)
Aliaksey Bobrykau - rhythm guitars (ex-OSSUARY, LOST REGRETS)
Mikhail Vasilkou - drums

Some break because of exams (all of us are students) and the work has begun. New (full-length) album is drawing near...

From 2003 the band works on the full-length album "Parastki Pamiaci na Ruinach Byłoha". The CD is to be released in the late 2008.

www.weepingtwilight.com
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Weeping+Twilight">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.