No matter whether as a singer in musical productions during late 60s Cultural Revolution, in blues or rack bands during the 70s and 80s and even while being part of the metal scene. No matter whether she was the musical head in her bands or a solo artist or only appeared as a guest musician for such German greats like Udo Lindenberg, Jutta Weinhold never just wanted to convey only emotions but lyrical content as well. Those she says, makes man be alive.

During her life with music, the singer from northern Germany has experienced both highs and lows. Especially Zed Yago the band that made Jutta quite famous in the metal scene, got her to know the difference between light and shadow.
  
On the one hand, Jutta Weinhold stood tall in a scene with at the time quite a conservative view of women (at least in Germany Warlock's Doro Pesch and Holy Moses' Sabina Classen were about the only female singers). She was as well able to accomplish her vision of lyrical content by conceiving the story of Zed Yago and transfer it into a musical masterpiece. On the other hand, the interior struggle which lead to the band's split and it's following legal struggles still remain the most painful experiences of her entire Life.
Although throughout the years guitar sounds became more and more heavy, Jutta was fed up with heavy music after the split of Zed Yago's successor Velvet Viper. She retrieved from hitting the stage to start a dedicated work for aspiring young musicians by giving vocal lessons at different music schools.
But the fire of heavy sounds was still alive. After returning to that good ol' overdriven sound of Marshalls and Les Pauls with some former members of 70s Jutta Weinhold Band , Jutta met new talented musicians created the current album "From Heaven through the World to Hell". But yet there was doubt and fear that those painful events at the end of Zed Yago might reoccur. At those moments Jutta Weinhold found new strength through her fans who encouraged her to carry on by signing the guestbook of the singer's webpage. "It was overwhelming", recalls Jutta. "Once I was sad I only had to make a few clicks to feel better."
Nowadays Jutta Weinhold teems with power. Her new album in the bag she especially looks forward to presenting the new material live at this year's Wacken Open Air. "This is a dream come true" she says. Obviously there will as well be some classics included in the set list.
Furthermore she is more than ambitious. "There a so many lyrics I haven't written yet, so many notes I haven't sung." So there's much to expect from Weinhold within the next few years.
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Weinhold">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.