Founded in 2002 by Alexey Welicoruss Boganov, the band WELICORUSS have established themselves in the top ranks of Siberian metal scene with intense live gigs and striking, full-length masterpieces that were appreciated by fans and critics both.

«Wintermoon Symphony», their first demo, has been recorded in 2002 – 2004. This was Welicoruss’ first step to win recognition throughout the whole Russia.

The period 2004 – 2007 brought changes both within the band’s line-up and style, which varied from symphonic black to pagan metal at that time.

The year 2008 may be called a pivot point in the band’s bio. One can’t deny that in the end of the year both fans and critics have seen the new Welicoruss – mature band with clear-cut style conception, stable line-up, and sound meeting the international standards with ease.

Not mentioning lots of local gigs, Welicoruss appears at MHM Festival in 2008 (Crimea, the 4th of August), featuring such bands as Samael, Moonspell, Cynic, and Gorgoroth.

On the 29th of October the debut «Wintermoon Symphony» CD was released by Moscow label CD-Maximum, and a bit later distributed in the EU and in the USA.

November, 2008 – the band takes part in Metal East Invasion Tour featuring Sinful, Demogorgon and Apokefale appearing live in Yoshkar-Ola, Yekaterinburg, Tomsk, Krasnoyarsk, Novosibirsk, Kemerovo and other cities.

The successful year 2008 ended with 2 long-awaited videos by Welicoruss: «Slavonic Power» (live) and «Blizzard» (studio). Welicoruss’ negotiations with the band Silenzium and their joint efforts resulted in the recording of the «Glory to Rus» composition’s symphonic arrangement .

The year 2009 was not less fruitful for the band:
April-May 2009 – Welicoruss blasts the stages of 16 Russian cities during the big All-Russian Wintermoon Symphony Tour in support of their debut CD. Not only becomes the band acknowledged by more and more fans, but also the label CD-MAXIMUM offers the guys the release contract of their second full-length album «Apeiron».
July 2009 – Welicoruss takes part in Metal Hail Fest in Irkutsk and is chosen out of many Russian bands to have a live gig with legendary Norwegian viking metallers Helheim in September.

Now the band is in studio driving away at their third album to be released in February, 2010 along with a new video and DVD. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/WelicoRuss">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.