At least two bands share this name:

1) A metal band based in Belgium:

Back in 1997 a few young lads, that had been listening to a lot of Bolt thrower, Obituary and Slayer, set their mind to an own metalband. What back then started as a deathcore band with a taste for deep grunts and blastbeats has evolved to a mature deathmetal band that isn't scared of some modern and irregular touches.

In all those years a demo and two full length albums where released on labels like The Spew(IT) and Shiver records(BE). They played on international festivals like SWR (Portugal) and Obscene Extreme (Czech republic), on one of Europe's leading metal fests (GRASPOP) and hundreds of international stages.

Musically the band has been making a steady evolution that is driven by the bands ongoing experience within the global music scene. The line up of the band has always been based upon a mutual vision and none of the ex-members will be forgotten, because their legacy still lives in what WELKIN is today.

Today the fire within the band burns harder than ever. A steady line-up of talented musicians that, even if they are very different as persons, share a common goal : make kick ass music that they would buy themselves!
Influenced by some of today's metal giants like Meshuggah and Gojira, but keeping in mind their own spirit and the legacy of WELKIN.
A live act that grew from a bunch of inexperienced teenagers to a pummeling metal bulldozer.

The future for WELKIN shines bright. During spring of 2009 they recorded a new full length called "Traces" at Svenchi's (Aborted), and is to be mastered and mixed by Jochem Jacobs (Textures) at Splitsecondsounds. This slab of modern deathmetal madness will be available later this year and can be enjoyed on a stage near you very very soon!

2) An art-rock band based in Canada. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Welkin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.