Epic Doom Metal band Well Of Souls was formed in December of 1997 strictly to have some fun, by guitarist Brandon Johnson and vocalist John Calvin. They began by following their mentors Solitude Aeturnus, Candlemass, and Black Sabbath among others but quickly developed their own style of classic metal mixed with European metal and doom metal. After a number of line-up changes, all the old songs we...re scrapped and the band spent the next eight months writing and recording their original five-song demo CD released in 2000, the now out-of-print and sought after "Black Reign" Demo. The EP contains different versions of what would appear on the debut full length CD as well as unreleased songs.

Well Of Souls was compared to everything from Fates Warning to Iron Maiden to Blind Guardian to Solitude Aeturnus as they employ a crushing guitar sound with progressive drumming and John's very unique, clean vocal style. In early 2003 the band began to record their official debut CD after working out a deal with Texas-based Brainticket Records run by legendary guitarist John Perez of Solitude Aeturnus. The self titled CD was released in January 2004 and after the bands touring bassist John Morris switched to the lead guitar spot and a new bassist was recruited, Well Of Souls began another onslaught of live shows to support their debut. Their live shows quickly gained notoriety among the Houston metal scene, which earned them coveted shows with international recording artists Savatage, Helloween, Fates Warning, Seven Witches, Omen, Steel Prophet, Helstar, Destinys End, Reverend Bizarre & Solitude Aeturnus among others. This culminated in a East Coast tour and the release of the very limited edition "Pilgrimage of Doom EP".

After the band's East Coast tour ended, they began writing the follow-up CD to their successful debut. In fitting "doom" fashion though, the band experienced multiple personal hardships which delayed their progress. The recording was finally completed in 2009, but during the arduous process of recording, combined with the personal hardships many of the members suffered, the band experienced it's first lineup change in 4 years losing two longtime members, including fellow founding member Brandon Johnson. 

After a long hiatus, Tim Wayne finally returned to the band in 2010 and new bassist Michael "Dr. Froth" Millsap joined in 2011. The 4th release and 2nd full length CD titled "Sorrow My Name" will be released on Brainticket Records in September of 2012. The album is classic Well Of Souls and promises not to disappoint!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Well+of+Souls">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.