Hailing from Cleveland, Ohio, blues/rock band Welshly Arms is comprised of Jimmy Weaver bass guitar, Mikey Gould drums, Brett Lindemann keys, and Sam Getz guitar and vocals. 

Welshly Arms owes its unique sound to the collective influences of rhythm and soul, rock and roll, and a hint of classic jazz/blues. From Jimi Hendrix to The Temptations; from Otis Redding to Howlin’ Wolf, the band’s love affair with retro and contemporary work brings a new sound with songs like “Two Seconds Too Late” and “The Touch”.

The band’s musical origins can be traced as far back as early childhood. Sam’s father, a music enthusiast and drummer, had a guitar in Sam’s hands by the age of 6. By the time he was 14, Sam was headlining clubs in the Cleveland Blues circuit and opening for acts like “Peter Green” of Fleetwood Mac and “Mick Taylor” of the Rolling Stones. At about the same time, Jimmy was playing with the Cleveland Youth Orchestra and guitar/bass in various rock bands. “Mikey” was honing his chops in local rock and punk groups, as well as his high school marching band while Brett spent his time mastering his quickly growing repertoire of classic jazz. 

“In high school, when I discovered and truly understood jazz, I realized there was a whole different way to play the piano, and that all the rules I learned as an early player didn’t apply,” commented Brett about his early playing. 

Eventually, Sam, Mikey, and Brett would meet each other through their local church and began playing Sunday services together.  After a few years, the three of them decided to pursue their own creative path.  Their individual stories would overlap as Sam, Jimmy, and Mikey played together as part of the Cleveland rock band, Cactus 12.  Brett, Sam, and Jimmy then toured the country with various renowned singer/songwriters over the next five years. 

Their paths crossed again in the summer of 2011. One afternoon, Sam Getz invited Jimmy, Mikey, and Brett over for what was initially an opportunity to catch up. A few friendly gathering turned into hours of jamming and writing.  These jams would help form the foundation for what would become “Welshly Arms
Welshly Arms’ other love is their hometown – Cleveland, OH. The town’s rich musical history is full of great artists who have inspired them, like “the Ojays,” “the James Gang,” and “the Black Keys.”  Being home to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame doesn’t hurt either. With a varied culture that spans from the Westside to the Eastside of the city, Weshly Arms pays respect to its hometown by writing, producing, and recording all of their material in Cleveland. 

When asked what best describes their musical approach, Brett had this to say: 
“There is both a human element and spontaneity that we attempt to portray in our music.  Listen to many current artists and attend their live shows and much of it can’t be translated. There is a need for it (what we do).” <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Welshly+Arms">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.