There are multiple artists named Weltschmerz: 1) A Dutch black metal band. 2) An Italian gothic rock band. 3) A Swedish gothic metal band. 4) An American black metal band.

1) Weltschmerz is a Dutch black metal band from Amersfoort. Hailing from the heart of the Netherlands, Weltschmerz translates feelings of loss, melancholy and misanthropy into its own style of black metal. Weltschmerz (from the German, meaning world-pain or world-weariness) is a term coined by the German author Jean Paul and denotes the kind of feeling experienced by someone who understands that physical reality can never satisfy the demands of the mind.
The band was formed in early 2009 by guitarist Hræsvelg and drummer Valr. Quite soon they were joined by singer Hreim and released their debut EP entitled Cry For War. By the end of the year bassist Vidar had also joined the band, completing the line-up. The band did a few gigs in 2010, but didn’t perform regularly until the release of their 2011 promo. Since then the band has been more actively performing live with bands which include Gorgoroth, Vader, Primordial, Horna, Taake, Tsjuder, Angantyr, Negura Bunget and Valkyrja.
In 2011 the band also participated in a 4-way split called Dutch and Canadian Annihilation and in 2012 the band added second guitarist Eitr to the line-up. In 2013 bassist Vidar left Weltschmerz. Not much later Weltschmerz signed with Immortal Frost Productions for the release of their full length album Odium Humani Generis which was released in 2014.

Line-up
Hreim - vocals
Hræsvelg - guitar
Eitr - guitar
Valr - drums

Live-member:
Tiudmen - bass

2) Weltschmerz is a gothic rock band from Milan, Italy, founded by Anthony Duman aka Nothing, following his experience as bass player of Monumentum (on the “Musaeum Hermeticum” demotape, 1989).
Weltschmerz started in 1994 as a one-man project, a first demotape, titled "Metaphysical Baroque", was released in the same year. In 1995 the first Weltschmerz CD, "Symptômes de ruine", was released on L'Alternative Dramatique, Anthony Duman own label. It also involved Mark Westfall (Monumentum's first vocalist), who sung the Rosemary's Baby cover "See Woman See Human". Even though the market welcomed the CD, Anthony Duman decided to freeze his project.
In 1996 Anthony Duman joined Canaan, recording the albums "Walk Into My Open Womb" and "Brand New Babylon". In 1998 Duman and Mauro Berchi aka Prejudice (Canaan's vocalist) recorded the first version of "Colore di pioggia e di ferro" for the "Dissolution Fahrenheit" compilation.
In the year 2000 Anthony Duman felt the need to get Weltschmerz out of hibernation, and asked Mauro Berchi to join Weltschmerz. Successively they met with an advertising the drummer Andrea Freschi aka Indifference. They were also joined by Alberto Valdonio aka Malice on keyboards, and Arianna aka Desire providing female vocals. The group rehearsed for one year and a half, not very frequently, before recording "Capitale de la douleur", which was released in 2001 on Eibon Records. In 2007 Anthony Duman stated that WeltSchmerz has been put on hold.

3) Weltschmerz is a gothic metal band from Linköping, Sweden, formed in 2002. The band changed its name in 2004 to Sabachthani.

4) Weltschmerz is a black metal band from the United Sates. They released a split album with Mons Veneris in 2007.

5) Weltschmerz is an Italian melodic metal cover band with progressive and symphonic influences. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Weltschmerz">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.