Wende (born Wende Snijders, Beckenham, Greater London, United Kingdom, 10 October 1978) is a Dutch singer-songwriter.

Wende moved to Indonesia when she was four years old and to Guinea-Bissau  when she was six. When she was nine years old, she came to The Netherlands, where she lived in Zeist. She went to the "Academie voor Kleinkunst" where she graduated in 2002. She specialized in singing French chansons.
In 2001 she won the first prize and the public's award of the Concours de la Chanson, which was held in De Kleine Komedie in Amsterdam and organized by Alliance Française. Her first album Quand tu dors was released in 2005 and won an Edison Award in the category Listening Song/Cabaret. She also won in 2005 the Zonta-Award (a prize for talented woman artists younger than 30) and the BAT-prize (potential theater talent). For the DVD Au suivant she received an Edison in 2006 in the category National Music DVD. The corresponding CD was nominated for an Edison in the category Listening song/Cabaret.

Her second album La Fille Noyée was released in 2006. Contrary to the previous album, this album didn't contain merely French chansons, but also songs in Dutch. This album also won an Edison in 2007 and a gold album in the popular Dutch talk show De Wereld Draait Door.

In 2007 she played with Jenny Arean - among others - in the theatre play Het Verschil (The Difference). There is a limited edition of this play on CD. On March 22 she sang with the Hungarian artist Yonderboi for the Dutch queen during the celebration of 50 years of European collaboration. She also won the Gouden Notenkraker in 2007.

On August 25 2007 her act on the Uitmarkt was live on Dutch television. In the season 2007/08 she will tour with her new show Adem (Breath), which she presented on Oerol.

On November 7 2007 she won another Edison, this time the Edison Jazz Award.

On April 27, 2008 Wende received the Annie M.G. Schmidt Prize for her theatre song De Wereld Beweegt (The World is Moving).

Wende is also a Atmospheric Black Metal project from Okanogan, Washington United States
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wende">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.