Whalesong started in 2009. Since the very beginning the band has always been highly influenced by genres like industrial, no wave and drone. Over time they created their unique uncompromising style consisted of sludge, doom metal, jazz, noise rock and post punk. Notwithstanding this, Whalesong music can't be easily described with just one genre, but one thing's for sure - Whalesong doesn't follow any trends and negates up-to-date fragmentary listening of music.
During live shows Whalesong attacks with heaviness, slow industrial rhythms, hypnotic arrangements and  overwhelming, more than 10-minutes long compositions. The band often decides to play live brand new songs (including stuff from incoming 'Radiance of a Thousand Suns' and also their still-unrecorded third album) and also rearranges/deforms old songs. Constantly repeated riffs and rhythms mixed with huge loudness don't let ignore them. Whalesong also understands the great value of dynamics and uses huge variety of instruments: gongs, hammered dulcimer, tubular bells, theremin, vibraphone and also objects like sheet metal and springs.
In 2017 Old Temple released Whalesong debut album - 'Disorder' and in 2018 2CD remix album - 'Disoder Deconstructed' - among the remixers were Sanford Parker (Corrections House, Mirrors for Psychic Warfare, ex-Minsk), Miro Snejdr (Herr Lounge Corps, Death in June), Submerged (The Blood of Heroes), Luke Lund, MOAN, Horologium and many many more. Thanks to Three Moons Records and Abusive Noise Tapes 'Disorder' is also available on limited tapes. Most of Whalesong releases are released in limited ammounts.
Currently the group finishes working on their second full length album - 'Radiance of a Thousand Suns', which is set to be released in second half of 2019. Among collaborators are: Thor Harris (SWANS, Xiu Xiu, Wrekmeister Harmonies, The Angels of Light), Wacław Vogg Kiełtyka (Decapitated, Lux Occulta), Aleksander Papierz (Sigihl) and award-winning vibraphonist Tomasz Herisz. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Whalesong">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.