What Made Milwaukee Famous has been a stalwart of the Austin, Texas music scene since their inception in 2002. Singer/Songwriter Michael Kingcaid has employed a diverse range of musicians in the past decade, priding the band on not being backed into any corners, stylistically.  With the release of their first two records, Trying to Never Catch Up and What Doesn’t Kill Us on Seattle’s Barsuk imprint, the band was touted for their abilities to channel strong musicianship and diverse songwriting into instantly, addictive hooks. Their “elegant pop” (Billboard) has landed them on the bill at a number of the mammoth festivals including Bonnaroo, Austin City Limits, Sasquatch, SXSW and Lollapalooza, highlighted by a taping on PBS’s prestigious Austin City Limits with Franz Ferdinand. They have also shared the stage with the likes of Arcade Fire, The Black Keys, The National, Snow Patrol, The Walkmen, TV on the Radio, and The Pretenders to name a few; a testament to the band’s musical diversity and mutual respect with other artists in the industry. 

WMMF has returned with their third full-length album You Can’t Fall Off The Floor that picks up right where they left off; uniting powerful, anthemic hooks with lush instrumentation and poignant libretto. WMMF has enlisted a who's who of the Austin music scene with guest spots by Kelly Doyle (Robert Ellis) on lead guitar, Evan Jacobs (Tacks the Boy Disaster, Polyphonic Spree) on keys, and Cully Symington (Afghan Whigs, Okkervil River, Cursive) on drums to round out a fresh new sound for the band. WMMF regulars Jason Davis and John Houston Farmer also join in on the action. The album was recorded at Good Danny’s studios in Austin, TX and co-produced by Danny Reisch (White Denim, Shearwater). Guest musicians Kathleen Edwards and Matthew Logan Vasquez (Delta Spirit) lend their talents, along with Austin staples Dana Falconberry, David Pulkingham (Alejandro Escovedo), Warren Hood, Mike Harmeier (Mike and the Moonpies), Gary Newcomb (Lil' Cap'n Travis), Aaron Sinclair (A. Sinclair, Frank Smith, The Lot Six), and Mike Booher (Zykos) and many more. You Can’t Fall Off The Floor has been described as a yearning and beautiful album that showcases the culmination of all that What Made Milwaukee Famous have sought to embody as a musical entity thus far. With the bar being set higher and higher with each subsequent release, What Made Milwaukee Famous are destined to etch their scores into the fabric of musical history.  
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/What+Made+Milwaukee+Famous">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.