What Worms Inherit was formed in March 2010 as a unified constellation of old and new members. Earlier the band had been working with generic thrash material under the name Mecachine, but in that spring the current lead singer Lasse Skov was added to the line-up and the band went in a completely different direction. The old material was discarded along with the name and genre, thus What Worms Inherit was born, consisting of Henrik Molin on drums, Kenneth Nielsen on guitars, Simon Nedenskov Madsen on bass and Lasse Skov as lead singer. Whilst writing new songs, several guitarists auditioned for the spot as second guitarist, unfortunatly no one brought anything new to the table. As of today What Worms Inherit is still looking for someone to fill the spot.
 
In July 2010 they recorded their first demo in Earplug studio where the legendary Mercyfull Fate have recorded their music. What Worms Inherit were ready to play their first concerts throughout the Copenhagen scene in Feburary and March 2011. Now they have just finished recording their new EP "An Ounce of Mud" at Gone Fishin' Studio. Unfortunatly unforseen circumstances forced them to part ways with drummer Henrik Molin. But after only a few auditions a match was made in heaven with the addition of Asbjørn Hougaard, leaving What Worms Inherit stronger than ever.
 
Eventhough What Worms Inherit is a new upcomming band they've achieved to get quite a bit of attention by their matchless style of music and opening for nonetheless than Napalm Death at The Rock CPH. They play Progressive Groove Metal and their unique expression and character comes from exploring the limitless boundaries of progressive music, while retaining a core sound rooted in groove and melodic death metal, which is reflected in the lyrics revolving around the murky and brutal world of misanthropy. Nothing is taboo, no one is safe and everything is a potential target to the aggressive Vikings.
 
What Worms Inherit, the shit that makes other turds look like crap. 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/What+Worms+Inherit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.