Biography – When All Life Ends

“Enjoying your own firing squad”

When All Life Ends is a metal band from Rotterdam, The Netherlands. The band was founded in 2005
and is known as a motivated and hard working band. The current lineup exists since late 2008, and consists of:

Gijs van de Kerkhof - drums
Robbert Boer - guitar
Bart van Beek - vocals
Bryan Klooster - guitar
Haico van Oosten – bass guitar

When All Life Ends’ deathcore is not just death metal riffs and breakdowns strung together. The music
has the intensity and aggression of deathcore, but also incorporates classical inspired melodies, birhythmic structures, sharp dissonances and technically challenging playing. When writing, the band
never loses sight of its goal, which is: writing a song. A track by When All Life Ends draws you in,
touches you, but never lets go.
The band puts up an energetic live show. One reviewer described it as followed: "It’s like you're enjoying
your own firing squad." The reputation When All Life Ends has built over the years, resulted in shows
with Walls of Jericho (US), Ringworm (US) and Cataract (CH) in 2009.

Achievements:
2006 EP release "Paradise of Pain"
2007 Album release "Reign of Ruin", Finalist Metal Battle (national battle of the bands contest)
2008 Finalist Wacken Open Air Metal Battle (national battle of the bands contest)
2009 Shows with Walls of Jericho, Ringworm and Cataract

Recent activities:
Since the completion of the line-up in 2008, the band has wrote a full-length album, titled “The Eye
Devours”. This album was recorded in the end of 2009. Everything has been prepared for the bands’
final breakthrough. The album is produced by Robbe K (Obsidian/Disavowed). One track features guest
vocals from Joel Sta (Pyaemia/Arsebreed). The release of “The Eye Devours” is scheduled for the first
half of 2010.

Contact info:
tel.: +31643043954
e-mail: info@whenalllifeends.com 
www.whenalllifeends.com 
www.myspace.com/whenalllifeends <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/When+All+Life+Ends">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.