Where Victims Lie is a thrash metal band from Jyväskylä, Finland. The origins of the band can be traced back to 2000, when Petosalmi (then of Timo Rautiainen & Trio Niskalaukaus, ex-Paraxism, ex-Sacred Crucifix) and Hakkola (ex-Unveiled (FIN), ex-Alghazanth, ex-Sotajumala) influenced by the likes of Death, Slayer, At the Gates, Stone, Sepultura and Morbid Angel) talked about starting an aggressive thrash metal band and soon asked Rahikainen (ex-Funeris Nocturnum, Atakhama) to join them. In January 2003 it was time to enter the rehearsal room and start jamming with Häkkinen (Sotajumala, ex-Atakhama). It took two months to compose four songs that would eventually make up the first demo. Nils Ursin (Petosalmi's bandmate from Trio Niskalaukaus and Paraxism) was recruited to play the bass and so the studio was booked for May.

First live performance took place in September 2003 at Kickstart indoor festival in Jyväskylä. Crowd response was overwhelming and the first batch of demos was sold out even before the doors were opened! Two more shows were played in December: Deathroit indoor festival in Jyväskylä, Tanssisali Lutakko and The Fragile Art of Existence, Tribute to Chuck Schuldiner in Tampere. Two brand new songs were debuted at these shows and again the crowd response was amazing! 

Unfortunately due to overriding priorities with other bands, after these shows it was time to put Where Victims Lie on hiatus.

Where Victims Lie started showing signs of life again in the late summer of 2006 and soon the band was back on track again. Ursin however couldn't find the time anymore and so a new bass player was found in Salonen. Once again it was time to start rehearsing new material and in January 2007 the band entered Tonebox recording studio in Oulu, Finland to record three new tracks of uncompromising thrash metal assault.

April 2007 saw the return of Where Victims Lie to live performances as a support for Finntroll in Lutakko, Jyväskylä to a great crowd response.

Where Victims Lie:

Teijo Hakkola - vocals
Jarkko Petosalmi - guitar
Simo Rahikainen - guitar
Jukka Salonen - bass
Timo Häkkinen - drums

www.wherevictimslie.com www.myspace.com/wherevictimslie <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Where+Victims+Lie">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.