Whiney first caught the attention of the drum & bass scene back in 2012 when he released the “Sweetest Sin” EP on Subsphere Recordings with longtime friend and now label mate, Keeno. Introduced to Drum & Bass at 14 and classical instruments at 7 Will focused his efforts on production, signing his first track ‘No More’ to Hospital Records at the age of 18. Already turning heads at a young age, Will signed exclusively to Hospital’s sister-label Med School Music just 2 years later. Twice heard on the imprint’s iconic ‘New Blood’ series, and following further appearances on the various artist albums “Sick Music 3” and “Hospitality 2015”, Whiney released his debut solo EP for Med School “Stranger Tides”. This release moved him away from the liquid licks he had become known for and introduced us to his darker, more dancefloor orientated tastes.

His 2017 album “Talisman” continued to showcase Whiney’s deeper sonic style and earned him recognition throughout the drum & bass scene. In that same year he was nominated in three categories in The Drum & Bass Arena Awards; Best Newcomer, Best Album and Best Track for the anthem that was ‘Flashlight’ feat. MC Inja. Of the album, ‘Flashlight’ stoked the most club support from legends like Randall. The track also reached the Beatport top spot for two weeks.

No longer viewed as a newcomer, Whiney’s second album “Waystone” cemented his name as one of the scene’s most well respected artists. There followed remix requests from S.P.Y, Etherwood, London Elektricity, BCee and Ecuador as well as radio and dancefloor support from DJ Target, Friction, Noisia, High Contrast, Rene LaVice, Annie Nightingale and Camo & Krooked, to name but a few. Whiney’s compositions are also included in diverse sync projects with BT Sports and Letterkenny and computer games like Need For Speed Heat, Forza Horizon 3 & 4, GRIP.

With over twelve years spent in choirs, orchestras and Grade 8 achievements in both violin and piano, it was inevitable Whiney’s life path would follow a musical route. After discovering a love for Pendulum and becoming inspired to delve into the world of music production, drum and bass became his calling.

These days Whiney can been seen playing sets across the globe, having had solo tours in Australia, New Zealand, China and South Korea, but his favourite shows have been closer to home as Whiney cites The Spider @ Arcadia, Printworks, Let It Roll and Boomtown as his personal highlights.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Whiney">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.