Whirr is an American shoegaze band from San Francisco, California, United States. They formed in 2010, originally as Whirl. The name was created by the original drummer, Sergio Miranda, in the midst of recording the band's first demos as a nameless project. It was a homage to all the bands of "the Scene That Celebrates Itself” (Lush, Ride, Moose, Medicine, Lilys, etc.). They had to legally change the name after a woman performing acoustic covers of Black Sabbath songs trademarked "Whirl" and threatened a lawsuit.

Whirr's sound is often compared to My Bloody Valentine and Slowdive. Founding guitarist Nick Bassett also played in the band Deafheaven surrounding and including the release of their 2011 album, Roads to Judah.

After a self-released demo cassette and the Distressor EP, the band signed to Tee Pee Records in 2011. The original vocalist Byanca Munoz left the band because of creative differences, and was soon replaced by Alexandra Morte (Night School, Camera Shy). They released the June single that year, followed by their 2012 debut album Pipe Dreams. The band also released two splits in 2012 with Anne and Monster Movie.

In 2013, the original drummer Sergio Miranda left the band and was replaced by Devin Nunes. Former vocalist Alexandra Morte also left the band and was replaced by Kristina Esfandiari (Miserable, King Woman). The band released a live EP entitled Part Time Punks Sessions on April 20, 2013. It was a performance recorded in 2012 that featured the band’s previous lineup.

Whirr released the Around EP on July 9, 2013, featuring the new vocalist along with session drummer Trevor DeSchryver (Lycus, Dispirit, formerly Deafheaven). They toured to support it that August with the band Nothing. Esfandiari was fired from the band prior to the tour, leaving the band without a female vocalist for the first time.

As a result of touring together, members of Nothing and Whirr formed a gothic rock / post-punk side project called Death of Lovers. Nick Bassett then joined Nothing as a bassist, and has been touring with them ever since. He also started an indie pop project with former Whirr vocalist Alexandra Morte called Camera Shy.

Whirr released their cover of Nirvana's Pennyroyal Tea on the tribute compilation In Utero, In Tribute, In Entirety on April 19, 2014.

The second full-length LP entitled Sway was released on September 23, 2014. It's the first release with Loren Rivera as the sole vocalist for the band. 

On October 7th, Graveface Records released a remastered version of their debut album entitled Pipe Dreams (Redux). The reissue is remastered by Jack Shirley and includes new artwork and the originally-intended tracklisting that the band preferred over the 2012 release. 

A Whirr / Nothing split was released November 17th, 2014 on Run for Cover Records.

On October 19th, 2015, a series of derogatory remarks towards G.L.O.S.S., a Washington-based hardcore punk band, were posted on Whirr's Twitter account. These tweets were considered as transphobic, and received massive backlash on social media. Graveface Records and Run for Cover Records severed ties with the band. Nick Bassett later admitted to posting the first tweet toward G.L.O.S.S., which read "Lol @ G.L.O.S.S." after hearing about a rumor that the band was only permitting certain types of people to attend their shows and buy their merchandise. According to Nick, the other tweets were posted by a friend of Whirr and did not reflect the band's views in any way.
Whirr posted a public apology to their twitter account, which said that they have severed ties with the person responsible for those tweets.

On the 25th of October 2019, after 3 years of being silent, Whirr did a suprise release on their website, announcing their new album Feels Like You by releasing a limited vinyl. The album leaked a couple days later, which made Whirr release the album on their bandcamp page.

Listen, buy, and support:
Whirr / Nothing split
Pipe Dreams (Redux)
Sway LP
Around EP
Feels Like You

Links:
Whirr Bandcamp
Whirr Tumblr
Whirr Twitter
Whirr Facebook

Current Members:
Nick Bassett - guitar (2010-present)
Loren Rivera - vocals, guitar (2010-present)
Joseph Bautista - guitar (2010-present)
Eddie Salgado - bass (2010-present)
Devin Nunes - drums (2013-present)

Previous Members:
Byanca Munoz - vocals, keyboards (2010-2011)
Sergio Miranda - drums (2010-2013)
Alexandra Morte - vocals, keyboards (2011-2013)
Kristina Esfandiari - vocals (2013)

Discography:
Demo (demo, 2010)
Distressor (EP, 2011)
June (single, 2011)
Pipe Dreams (LP, 2012)
Whirr / Anne (split with Anne, 2012)
Color Change / Flatlining (split with Monster Movie, 2012)
Part Time Punks Sessions (live EP, 2013)
Around (EP, 2013)
In Utero, in Tribute, in Entirety (Pennyroyal Tea cover, 2014)
Sway (LP, 2014)
Pipe Dreams (Redux) (Remastered LP, 2014)
Whirr / Nothing (split with Nothing, 2014)

2. Whirr is an ambient/drone producer from Tarragona, Spain.
http://whirr.bandcamp.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Whirr">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.