The earliest traces of a band named "White Crow" could be found as long ago as in the 20th century nineties. But one should cite 2004-2005 as the real beginning when a band consisting of: Maciej Klasinski – voc, Wojciech Pilat – g, Michal Wojno – b, and Aleksander Jankiewicz - dr, with a guest appearance of Piotr Kowalczyk - kb, recorded a longplay appropriately titled “Creatio ex Nihilo”.

The music on the CD could be described as a mixture of a melodic hard rock and heavy metal with progressive influences. The members cited a lot of names as their influences, just a few of them being: Dream Theater, Whitesnake, Alice in Chains, Judas Priest. The CD consisted of ten songs, including one instrumental - clocking at ca. 53 mins.

The band members – regarding the fact that one has to be noticed before even being heard - decided to give it a try with self releasing the CD professionally in 1000 copies and sending them all around the world. To the band's amusement, it has received many positive reviews, not only in Poland but also in Germany (“Rock Hard”) and Brasil (whiplash.net), to include just a couple of foreign countries.

Following the first effort, in September 2006 “White Crow” - joined by a new bass player Remigiusz Gorecki, and keyboardist Pawel Penksa - has begun the recording of their next album in DBX Studio located in Warsaw, under the engineering ear of Jacek Melnicki. During the recording session the band was supported by a female soprano voice of Joanna Lysek. The production of the CD, which contains eight new songs plus orchestral interludes, was finished in June 2007. The album – entitled “In A Forgotten Play” – has later been professionally mastered by Polish leading mastering engineer Grzegorz Piwkowski. Currently the group is looking for a professional company to release the album.

The band's repertoire consists of almost thirty self-composed songs, we keep working extensively on many new ones too. Thanks to a few years of stage experience and more than fifty live shows played to date, "White Crow" not only sounds great, but also "looks" outstanding on stage, having performed many memorable live shows. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/White+Crow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.