White Fang is four lifelong friends (Erik Gage, Kyle Handley, Jimmy Leslie, Chris Uehlein). Formed in Portland, OR in 2005 while still in high school, first as a recording band, then as a folk band, then as a punk band, then as a noise band, then as a punk band again. There used to be a lot of people in the band, rotating on a undefined lineup, including past, present and future members of Boom! and Typhoon.

The band has four (4) albums;  Pure Evil (2008, Marriage Records), Whatever (2009, Marriage Records), Grateful to Shred (2011, Marriage Records) and Positive Feedback (2011, Gnar Tapes), two (2) 7"s; Younger (2010, Marriage Records) and Old Standard Sessions #1: Boom! and White Fang (2010, Hovercraft Records). They have played over 500 shows across the US and have toured nearly a dozen times.

 Erik and Chris own and operate esteemed Portland cassette label, Gnar Tapes & Shit (www.gnartapes.com), which has issued over 60 different releases over the past four (4) years and continues to release bands from Portland, other parts of the US and the world. 

The band is highly active in booking and promoting shows in Portland and along the West Coast, not just for themselves, but for friends and touring bands as well. Every member of WF is involved in other music and recording projects; Erik and Kyle both write and record as The Memories, playing live alongside Izak Arida of  Boom! and Aaron Levy of  Meth Teeth, Chris plays under Unkle Funkle and with Erik in rap production duo Feather Headdress, and Jimmy is a founding member of noise rock ensemble  Timmy the Terror & the Winter Coats, alongside former WF members.

 WF is known for their high energy live shows and brazen disregard for personal safety and substance tolerance. They have often been criticized and disregarded for being "too young" and have faced confrontations with disgruntled doormen and jealous rivals since their arrival over 5 years ago, but WF remains a constant presence and driving force in Portland's underground rock scene. They are willing to carry that shred into infinity. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/White+Fang">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.