Formed in February of 2005, Whom Gods Destroy is currently an incomplete,
old-school metal band, based in Nova Scotia (Canada). Inspired by the likes
of Slayer, Iron Maiden, Judas Priest, Dio, Black Sabbath, Metallica, and
many others -- guitarist, Tim Gaudet; bassist, Elizabeth Bondarenko; and
drummer/vocalist, Nick Bond -- have set out with one ultimate goal in mind:
to play classic heavy metal.

From its initial conception, the band's objectives and methods have been
somewhat unorthodox. Completely uninterested in starting out by rehearsing
and performing covers, the three-piece immediately launched into composing
their own original material, and are adamant that they will never perform
other bands' songs under any circumstances.

"We want people's opinions of this band to be based on our own work," says
Elizabeth Bondarenko. "If people are going to like us or hate us, it should
be based on the songs we've written, ourselves. If we're ever to be
successful at this, we want to know it was our own music that got us there;
not someone else's."

Restricted by a low budget, the members of the band have worked hard to
utilize their sub-par equipment to its full potential. Heavily-used,
obscure-brand, antique drums; small and antique amps; cheap, generic
guitars; and the most inexpensive microphones and drumsticks -- have all
been used or continue to be used out of necessity. Where most musicians
would deem such equipment unacceptable for use, WGD have made the most out
of what they have, and have upgraded to better gear when affordable. In
fact, only recently have some long-awaited upgrades been able to take place.
These financial setbacks, however, have proven to be of little concern, and
do not discourage the band from battling on.

"A lot of our favorite bands basically started with nothing," Elizabeth
comments. "It's only really now that you see very young bands -- often still
in high school -- with fairly expensive gear; or, at least, expensive by our
standards. We just can't afford that stuff. So, you have to make do with
what you have. If Paul McCartney could cut piano strings and get away with
using them for bass strings when he couldn't afford the real deal, I think
we can make do with what we've got."

A bigger concern has been the group's continuous search for two more band
members. Located in a relatively remote area of the province, and having
very specific ideals in mind, it has been difficult for the trio to discover
like-minded musicians to fill the remaining positions in the group.
Initially, the search was focused on a vocalist and rhythm guitarist.
Recently, however; drummer, Nick Bond, took the plunge and made the switch
from drums to vocals.

"We figured it would be easier to find another drummer than a singer,"
Elizabeth explains. "Vocalists willing to attempt classic-style metal are
hard to come by, here. We're just fortunate enough to have someone as
multi-talented as Nick. He has the potential to become a great front man,
which is exactly what we're looking for."

Until they are able to locate another drummer, Bond has agreed to perform
both duties of drums and vocals on the band's recordings with the aid of
overdubs. Lead guitarist, Tim Gaudet, who has also been serving as the
band's recording engineer, will fill the position of rhythm guitarist, as
well, until the spot can be officially filled by someone else.

"We're very lucky to have people in this band with multiple skills, who are
also willing to take on more than one job," the bassist continues. "I think
that says how dedicated we are to making this work, regardless of all the
apparent setbacks. We just really love this music. It's a long, hard road
ahead, but we all strongly believe we can do this, and we'll each do
everything we can to make the dream a reality."

With all bases temporarily covered, Whom Gods Destroy are presently focused
on recording rough demos of their ten original songs. The material -- some
of which they have shared with the public via the internet -- has been
described as "Iron Maiden-esque", with "strong elements of Slayer", and
"full of killer riffs". Future plans include live shows and recording
professionally. Meanwhile, the search for a rhythm guitarist and drummer
continues, and money isn't coming any easier.

"We're in for a lot of hard work," admits Elizabeth. "But, if this goes
right," she adds, "I think we're also in for a lot of fun."

http://www.whomgodsdestroy.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Whom+Gods+Destroy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.