WHORACLE was formed in early 2001 by Alex Measmer (Drums), Matthew Gibbs (Lead Guitars), and Travis Slavens (Bass). Shortly after, Toby Sanders was added to play bass, thus moving Slavens to vocals. Soon to follow was long friend and former bandmate Jeff Sisson to play Rythym Guitar.

(2003) After many discussions with the band, Slavens was replaced with Vocalist Issac South. The band went on to play with this new line up, however, it didn't hold up long. Musical differences became greatly evident between South and the rest of the band and he to was asked to step down. The band then tried once more with Slavens on Vocals, but by this time he was no longer capable of performing and was heading in a different direction. To add to the chaos, Jeff Sisson had quit the band to take care of a girl and a family leaving Whoracle down to just three.

(2004)Whoracle continues as a three-piece this time just Alex Measmer(drums), Toby Sanders(bass),and Matthew Gibbs taking over Lead Vocals as well as Guitars. The band tried several times to replace Sisson, but found there were few capable musicians around. So with no luck, the band took a break from playing live and prepared to record thier first demo.

(2005)Whoracle releaseed their first demo. The demo was recorded, mixed and mastered in under eight hours by Clinton Applehanz(Origin/Unmerciful) at Waveworks studio in Topeka KS. The demo featured three songs: A Taste Of Hell, Stormshadows, and Constellation. The album was just a three song promo cd for people to hear while awating the new debut full length album to be released in July 06'.

(2006) On July 20th, 2006 Whoracle will release the follow up to thier 2005 demo (not yet titled) which is also being recorded at Waveworks studio and again by Clinton Applehanz. The band is also set to hit the road and are currently setting dates to promote this album. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Whoracle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.