The relentless metal outfit WHY SHE KILLS hails from the Netherlands and came to life in March 2006. The six piece is just as new and fresh as they are experienced and solid. The original idea was to have a female vocalist fronting a brutal metal band. Not new at all, but rarely seen in this genre. What followed was a bizarre chain of events that resulted in a fresh, original and devastating force of today's metal: WHY SHE KILLS!

It was early 2006 when original Genetic Wisdom members Peter Slootbeek (guitar), Ronny Scholten (drums) and Ralph Roelvink (guitar) came together. After releasing two albums in the nineties (The Fear Dimension, 1993 and Humanity on Parole, 1994 both on Mascot records) and touring together for years, the guys thought it was time to impress the metal community once again with some crushing brutality. Being formed and influenced by all that happened over the years and encountering modern metal, the idea was clear: absolute brutality and melody fronted by a female 'beast'. At that time Rutger de Vries filled in the bass position. Numerous auditions followed to find the right chick and eventually two made it through. Listening back to audition tapes (one of the songs was a Killswitch Engage track) both of these girls delivered, The band asked both Imke Kuipers and Janneke de Rooy to join WHY SHE KILLS and become a one of kind metal machine. Both women said yes without even knowing each other and in March 2006 the six piece was complete for the first time.

WHY SHE KILLS shifted into writing mode after replacing bass player Rutger by Gerrit Knol. Rutger was unable to combine it with other obligations. Gerrit marked the fourth ex Genetic Wisdom entry into the band. This unique idea asked for ambitious goals and hard labour at full speed. Some people in the industry knew something was going on and the band itself could not wait to record and hit stages. Writing, arranging and sculpting the riffs, bits and pieces and turning it into something extremely brutal and melodic went on until August. WHY SHE KILLS recorded their EP 'Of Hope and Suffocation' at Krabman Music Studio's with producer Arno Krabman (Wackmobil, Lange Frans en baas B) and Nienke de Jong (lead singer of Autumn) by the end of August 2006. The songs are as hard hitting as melodic, aggressive and pounding. You'll get the grunts, the screams, the harmonics and powerful clean hooks

WHY SHE KILLS continues to talk to interested record labels and hopes to release their debut full length as soon as possible.

Janneke de Rooy - Vocals
Imke Kuipers - Vocals
Peter Slootbeek - Guitars
Ralph Roelvink - Guitars
Ronnie Scholten - Drums
Gerrit Knol - Bass <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Why+She+Kills">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.