Wicked Side is a heavy metal band from Białystok, Poland. The band’s style can be best described as old school heavy metal with a hint of thrash. Being influenced by the likes of Iron Maiden, Iced Earth, Blaze Bayley or Metallica, their music is a combination of fast, heavy riffs, melodic vocals, catchy harmonies and virtuose solos. The songs vary from simple in-your-face rockers to complex epics.

The band was founded in May 2009 by Maciej Rusiniak (guitar), Paweł Serwatka (guitar), Przemysław Przytuło (bass guitar), Tomasz Marciuk (drums). The debut show took place on September 26, 2009 at the Road Runners MC rally. Later on the band focused on rehearsing and polishing their songs which resulted in a three-song promo CD released on March 1, 2010. Since then Wicked Side has hit the stage on numerous occasions including, but not limited to, playing as a support act for renown Polish heavy metal bands Turbo, Chainsaw, and CETI, and former Iron Maiden singer Blaze Bayley, as well as taking part in Crazy Friends Fest in Vilnius, Lithuania alongside with major Lithuanian bands and Russian guitar legend Sergey Mavrin.

In October 2010 the band parts its ways with Paweł Serwatka who is replaced during live shows by Grzegorz Lemański. In December Tomasz Marciuk leaves the band, but as soon as the new year begins a new drummer arrives - Przemysław Reducha. The beginnings of 2011 also signifies attempts to find a stable line-up, e.g. Maciej Rusiniak (who also leaves the band for a short time) is replaced as a singer by Przemysław Przytuło. Eventually, in May a new guitarist Michał Pęza joins, and the band begins preparations to recording new material. Unexpectedly, Michał departs just before the recording sessions, so the band enters the studio in three-man line-up. Just before the autumn concerts Michał Zawadzki completes the line-up and the band, among others, on two shows during Ghost From The Past World 2011 Tour of Polish band CETI. On December 21, 2011 the 5-track EP entitled "Welcome to the Wicked Side" is released. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wicked+Side">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.