There are multiple artists named Wicked Minds: 1) Italian rock band. 2) A Chicano gangster rap group.

1) Wicked Minds is a progressive / hard rock / heavy psych band formed in 1987 in Piacenza, Italy. Their brand of Hammond-drenched rock n roll immediately calls to mind vintage Deep Purple and Byron-era Uriah Heep.

2) Wicked Minds is one of the pioneers of the Latin hip-hop scene. The first Wicked Minds album release occurred the night of Halloween, October 31st, 1996. Since then, Wicked Minds has continued releasing albums every Halloween. Allot of people have asked Wreck, what does the name “Wicked Minds” mean or stand for. Where did the name come from? The name “Wicked Minds” means, “What is misunderstood is feared” Ever since the beginning of time, when something was misunderstood, it was considered evil or wicked. Since the 2006 Halloween release of “The 18th Angel” on Thump/DefBoy Records, Wicked Minds has released “Illuminati”. This album introduces the newest artist to the Wicked Minds line-up, Lil Wreck, Baby Face. Finally we have the newest Wicked Minds cd which is the reunion album titled “Legion” Wreck, BabyWicked, Mr. Chino Grande, and Cuete Yeska get back together to record this hip hop masterpiece.”Legion” also introduces the joining of forces by the Wicked Minds kids Lil Wreck(Wreck’s son) and Lil Bam Bam(Cuete Yesca’s son). The last thirteen years have been spent performing on stages across the country with various artists. Some of these artists include such names as Ludacris, Cypress Hill, Xzibit, Baby Beesh (before he was Bash), Frost, Lighter Shade of Brown, Run DMC, SPM, Brown Boy, Cecy B, Nino Brown, Down, Mr. Capone-e, Lil Rob, Snoop Dogg, Warren G, Fat Joe, Stevie B, Chingo Bling, Knightowl, Brenton Wood, War, Tierra, Rocky Padilla, DJ Quick, Suga Free, and the list goes on and on. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wicked+Minds">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.