Wigrid was founded in 1998 by Ulfhednir as a one man project in Saarbrücken, Germany. After the band was created, the first demo, "Die Totgeburt Jesu Christi", was released. This demo contained five songs and was never officially published. In the early months of 1999, the second Wigrid demo, "Ort Der Einsamkeit" was finished being recorded. About a year later, the demo "Hoffnungstod" was completed. 

Through that, Wigrid sparked the interest of German label No Colours Records, who over the next couple of years released two full-length albums titled "Hoffnungstod" and "Die Asche Eines Lebens". These were met with generally positive reactions and introduced Wigrid to the international underground scene, quickly gaining a reputation and following. 

Afterwards, it became rather quiet around Wigrid. In the meantime, contact with No Colours had ceased completely, and Ulfhednir was also withdrawing more and more from the drastically changed black metal scene, being musically active in other groups and projects. However, he managed to write and record material for a planned Wigrid EP, which didn't see the light of day until the relatively young and unknown band Sunshine & Lollipops from Berlin finally contacted him in order to instigate a collaboration. 

Subsequently, a split album called "Split The Indifference - Geteilte Gleichgültigkeit" was released through Bleeding Heart Nihilist Productions. It contains two new Wigrid songs, one of which is more of an eery ambient sound collage, while the other quite convincingly captures the typical depressive/suicidal Wigrid style established on earlier recordings, with a playing time of over ten minutes.



Wigrid is a one man band hailing from Saarbrücken, Germany. Ulfhednir is handling all the instruments himself. 

- Releases -
1998 - Die Totgeburt Jesu Christi (demo)
1999 - Ort der Einsamkeit (demo) 
2000 - Hoffnungstod (demo)
2002 - Hoffnungstod 
2005 - Die Asche Eines Lebens

Wigrid also has an otherwise unreleased track called "Freitod" featured on the "No Colours Records Compilation Volume III"  which was released in 2002. 

Wikipedia Article <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wigrid">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.