Two artists share the name Wild Side:

1. Hardcore band from Canada. Featuring members of Sabotage, Demolition, Hired Goons, and Ancient Heads.

2. The band norwegian band WildSide started out in late 2005. Formed by drummer Ronny Arntzen and ex-Pagan's Mind guitarist Thorstein Aaby. To complete the line-up, vocalist Paul Martin and bassplayer Johnny Myren was hired. Myren did not stay in the band for long, and in came a much more competent bassist, Stian Stensrud. In the begining the band was mainly playing cover tunes, but a couple of original tracks also surfaced. Early 2007 a two track demo featuring Nite Show and Calling Past was recorded. Shortly thereafter Aaby's health got worse, so the band decided to get a stand-in guitarist. Tom Grana, and old friend of Stensrud joined the ranks. This worked out really well, so the plan was to go for a twin guitar attack when Aaby got back. Unfortunally that never happend, cause on july 24th 2007 Thorstein Aaby died of cancer. In november of 2007 the band entered Ronny Le Tekrö's(TNT's legendary guitarist) Studio Studio to record their debut album, Indication. But some problems followed, and the album wasn't released until october of 2008, then only in Scandinavia. Enter 2009 and things looked promising for the band; WildSide recruited a second guitarist, the highly skilled youngster Jon Aarseth, adding an extra dimension to both studio and live preformances of the band. But shortly after singer Paul Martin decided to quit due to personal reasons. But WildSide turned the change into somthing good, and in came the entuhsiastic Joachim Berntsen, with a voice that suited the band very well. After some very well recieved gigs the band went into the studio again their second album, Speed Devil. This time in Klyve Lydstudio in Skien, Norway. The production was done by the band themselves, while the mixing was done by King Diamond guitarist Andy LaRoque at his Sonic Train Studios in Sweden. Speed Devil marked a huge step in the right direction, and is scheduled for release in May 2010. So watch out, folks!  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wild+Side">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.