Wilderun is an American folk metal band, formed in Boston, Massachusetts.

In the fall of 2012, Wilderun released their debut full-length “Olden Tales & Deathly Trails”, followed up by “Sleep at the Edge of the Earth” in 2015. Wilderun has completed multiple tours in the U.S. in support of these albums, and plan to continue that touring in 2016.

“Wilderun lives in the best of many worlds, balancing orchestral, epic metal with folky strains and wandering—with a gusto—into black metal territory, or even thrashy melodeath….'Sleep at the Edge of the Earth' is imperious….something so majestic that I can already confidently assert that it will be jostling for first place in my Top 10 o’ 2015.” - Angry Metal Guy

“Vast instrumentation, insane playing and enough hooks to go fishing with” - Metal Injection

“('Sleep at the Edge of the Earth' is) a totally out-of-nowhere progressive metal masterpiece and in my mind a strong contender for album of the year.” - Arctic Drones

“Wilderun has given us a magical ride through progressive metal and symphonic folk metal” - Headbang or GTFO

“'Sleep at the Edge of the Earth' is nothing short of breathtaking, and should be required listening for any and all fans of extreme metal.” - Dead Rhetoric

“There are few moments more satisfying as a music writer (and fan) than being blindsided and absolutely floored by a previously unknown musical entity bursting out of the woodwork and delivering an album of the emotional depth and magnitude of 'Sleep at the Edge of the Earth'.” - Teeth of the Divine

“How ('Sleep at the Edge of the Earth') is only their second album I don’t know, and frankly I don’t believe it. That a band on album two can put something like this out really leaves no excuse for bands with an extensive back catalogue. The young bands of today are offering up some serious competition and bands like Wilderun are high in the pack.” - Sound The Charge  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wilderun">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.