There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Wild were a five-piece Classical Contemporary female group, formed in 2002. They were often compared to Bond, due to the very similar makeup and style of both groups.

Although Katie, Izzy Johnston, and Chantal Leverton were British,  Iva Cojic and Andjelka Ristic were born in Serbia.

Wild played a range of different genres on their debut album Time, and their music ranged from Latin beats to Celtic inspired. Wild also played the main theme of the TV Show, 'Robinson Crusoe', exclusively at their concerts. Their album, Time, featured a version of the song "The Eve of the War" from Jeff Wayne's Musical Version of The War of the Worlds, which was produced by Wayne himself.

The group has split up. Two of the members (Izzy Johnston, and Chantal Leverton) are now part of eScala (formerly Scala), a similar four-piece classical group who supported McFly in 2005 and appeared on Britain's Got Talent in 2008.


2) Wild is a hard-rock band from Latvia. Formed ir summer of 2006 by two guitarists - Jānis Līde and Jānis Andžāns. More detailed information about band, music and band members at http://wild.draugiem.lv (page in latvian language). Official band website is http://www.wild-rock.lv

3) Wild Is an Heavy Metal band from Spain first know as Majesty Night, formed in 2002. released their debut album 'La Nueva Orden' in 2011.

4) WILD is a Los Angeles based trio comprised of Lauren Luiz (vocals), Tyler Thompson (producer/guitar) and Zach Daegatano (guitar/vocals). Hailing from Portland, Minneapolis, and Boston respectively, their paths did not intertwine until Tyler and Zach met through a mutual friend and began writing songs together. The only thing missing was the right singer who could complement their soulful melodies with pop sensibilities. It was not until Tyler and Zach met Lauren in 2016 that they felt complete. Lauren’s powerful vocals and strong topline was the perfect fit. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wild">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.