William Armistead Tyler (born December 25, 1979, in Nashville, Tennessee) is an American musician and guitarist, who plays Folk, Indie folk and Pop rock, and is currently signed to Merge Records. He is a member of Lambchop and Silver Jews.

Tyler was born to Daniel E. "Dan" Tyler and Adele B. Tyler on December 25, 1979, in Nashville, Tennessee. His father is a noted songwriter in his own right who wrote the songs: "The Light in Your Eyes" by LeAnn Rimes, co-wrote "Baby's Got a New Baby" by S-K-O, co-wrote "Modern Day Romance" by Nitty Gritty Dirt Band, and lastly both of his parents co-wrote "Bobbie Sue" by The Oak Ridge Boys. In addition, Tyler has a younger sister named Elise. William and Elise Tyler were the owners and founders of The Stone Fox in Nashville, Tennessee, which was a music restaurant/café/bar that opened on September 20, 2012 and held its final live show on January 31st, 2016. William is a 1998 graduate and his sister Elise is a 2002 graduate of University School of Nashville.

Tyler was first a member of Lambchop and Silver Jews, which started in 1998, and this was before he became a solo artist. Tyler first joined Lambchop in 1998 at the age of 19 because Kurt Wagner approached him about playing the organ in the band. However, it turned out that he got to play guitar because he admittedly said "I couldn't really play" the organ. In 2010, Tyler released a universally acclaimed album entitled Behold the Spirit, and in 2013 released another critically acclaimed album entitled Impossible Truth.

His debut studio album Behold the Spirit was released on November 22, 2010. Adam Bednarik produced the album along with Tyler on Tompkins Square Records, and the release became universally acclaimed. Tyler's second studio album, Impossible Truth, was released on March 19, 2013 by Merge Records. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/William+Tyler">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.