Willy Moon dropped out of school at 16 and left NZ at 18 for Europe. Born in Wellington.  Free-spirited and spontaneous, he defines  himself as "A sort of Bo Diddley remixed by Swizz Beatz." In fact, the sound of this man can be considered retro, but without resorting to any move to some kind of redemption. It may seem strange, but when you hear his first single, I Wanna Be Your Man, you will understand better.

Willy is impossible to classify in a single tag or style. The sound he makes isn't Rock, R & B, Hip Hop or Funk, but a mixture of all marked by the idea of making music from punk energy with less than three minutes. "It's like the Rock & Roll had been frozen before the Beatles discovered the acid, and was found by a producer of Hip Hop, 45 years later," this is more than just a definition Moon to know about their sound.

Recently, the boy fell into the graces of Third Man Records, and consequently, the kingpin Jack White and already joined the label's catalog. Although follow very different styles, there is much in common between the two - the 50's vibe and pre-Rock is the most noticeable. The musicians share many references, such as withdrawals of dusty discs of the '20s and '30s and especially the Rock American previous to the 60. Be current and retro at the same time is something that dominates the double well.

With a few songs released (five to be exact), Willy can already be considered a hype this year.The boy has appeared in several foreign publications and was elected as one of the "Faces of 2012" by Q Magazine as well as appearing on BBC Radio 1 as the single Yeah Yeah. Also for 2012, Moon has promised a full CD, hopefully with Jack White behind the sound desk and in producing this prodigy.

Learn to make a good debut single makes all the difference Willy Moon and took very well this unique opportunity, generating a great curiosity in those who watch the video. The other singles released not far behind, which only increases the expectation to hear an album full of the boy, even more when Jack White is involved.

www.willymoon.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Willy+Moon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.