William Prince is a Canadian folk and country singer-songwriter, who won the Juno Award for Contemporary Roots Album of the Year at the Juno Awards of 2017 for his debut album Earthly Days. A member of the Peguis First Nation from Manitoba, he performed as a solo artist, and alongside Vince Fontaine and Don Amero in the band Indian City, before releasing Earthly Days in 2015.

William Prince is about to have a very busy year. Fresh from his Western Canadian Music Awards nominations where he landed nods for Roots Artist of the Year and Aboriginal Artist of the Year for his debut album, Earthly Days, the acclaimed singer/songwriter has a plethora of upcoming shows. He'll hit the Prairie Wind Music Festival in June, Canada Day at The Forks, and play a coveted spot at the Winnipeg Folk Festival in July. He'll also head to New York at the end of July for La Casita Out of Doors Festival at the Lincoln Center, and gear up for harvest/trout quartet of festivals: Harvest Sun Festival, Trout Forest Music Festival, Rainbow Trout Music Festival, and Harvest Moon Festival.

William Prince is storytelling singer/songwriter from Peguis First Nation who sidesteps cliches to provoke thought and facilitate discovery. His baritone vocals pay tribute to his late father and his genuine delivery acknowledges the hundreds of hours he's spent on stage. Prince's debut album Earthly Days was produced by long time collaborator Scott Nolan.

A recent alumni of the tri-annual Planet IndigenUS Music Festival, Prince was named the 2014 Aboriginal Songwriter of the Year at the Aboriginal Peoples Choice Music Awards (newly named Indigenous Music Awards).

His lead single The Carny went to Number 1 on the Sirius XM National Aboriginal Music Countdown Top 40 (Produced by NCI FM). His new single You Got Me is currently climbing the charts. 

Prince won a Western Canadian Music Award for Aboriginal Artist of the Year in 2016, and received a Canadian Folk Music Award nomination for Aboriginal Songwriter of the Year at the 12th Canadian Folk Music Awards. The album was a double Juno Award nominee for Contemporary Roots Album of the Year and Indigenous Music Album of the Year at the 2017 Juno Awards. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/William+Prince">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.