Will 'O' Wisp formed in July 1992. The band, initially devoted to dark-psychedelic sounds, soon moved towards the world of metal and gothic. Once the line-up was settled, in 1994 the demo "Nocturnal Whispers" was released, which was widely accepted throughout the European underground and was chosen by Metal Hammer as the Italian demo of the month. The results obtained give the group good visibility and arouse the interest of some labels: the band thus finds an agreement with Pick Up records.
"Enchiridion" was born, debut work published in 1997, which pushes the band further on the wave of consensus (the defunct Psycho magazine spoke of a masterpiece).
The record sold out in less than a year and a half
and the band soon returned to the studio to record Unseen (1998).
After the master, however, the label continued to delay the output.
This led to a friendly separation of the parties and the band,
back in possession of the master, she decided to close the business.
Thanks to the interest of Beyond Productions, the disc still managed to see the light (2002) although the material was already ready for some time. Unseen, albeit posthumously, once again received a broad consensus from the underground scene and soon sold out too.

The story seemed to have ended like this ... Until today.

In 2008 Paolo founder of the band decides to resurrect the project, and decides, in agreement with Fabrizio (bassist and co-founder of the band)
to refound the group.
The choice of the new line up falls on some of the best musicians of the Italian metal scene, the semi legendary Oinos (Thy nature, Node, Sadist, Cayne)
and Jacopo Rossi (Nerve).
The role of vocalist therefore falls on Deimos former voice of the great Revenants.
The summer of 2011 sees the band in the studio.
Kosmo was released in March 2012.
The new work receives the unanimous approval of the critics who define it among the best prog-death releases ever.

Currently the band is working on the new album which will see the light in the first months of 2015.
Also on this occasion it will be a very particular concept ... <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Will+%27o%27+Wisp">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.