There are multiple artist named Wind:

1) Wind was a West Coast '60s inspired German psych rock band. Their first album "Seasons" (1971) is considered to be a little classic in the early days of progressive rock. It features complex epic songs within heavy rock, psych-spaced out proportions. "Morning" (1973) is a catchy collection of almost conventional heavy rocking songs. Without gaining the commercial success, the band split in 1973. The drummer Lucky Schmidt will pursue his career with the band Aera. 

2) Wind was started in 1985 by the composer Hanne Haller. The other members of the band at that time were Alexander "Ala" Heiler, Christine von Kutschenbach, Rainer Höglmeier, Willie Jakob, Sami Kalifa and Petra Scheeser.
The group has participated in the Eurovision Song Contest for Germany three times. The first time was shortly after the formation of the band, in Eurovision 1985. With the song Für alle they finished second, just behind the winning duo Bobbysocks from Norway. In 1987 Wind returned to the contest, performing Lass die Sonne in dein Herz in Brussels, Belgium. Once again they achieved a second place, this time behind Johnny Logan who represented Ireland. Lass die Sonne in dein Herz has since become the band's trademark tune, including welcoming visitors to their official website. Wind entered Eurovision for a third time in 1992 in Malmö, Sweden, with the song Träume sind für alle da. This time they were not as successful, finishing 16th of 23 participants. According to John Kennedy O'Connor in his book The Eurovision Song Contest: The Official History, Wind are the only act to ever finish second in the contest on two occasions.

3) Wind was a pagan black metal band from Poland formed in 1993 by vocalist/guitarist Lord Darkstorm of the black metal band Darkstorm and drummer Lord Wintersky. They released two demo/rehearsals and a promo tape before disbanding. Material from their second rehearsal, "Night My Queen" was rereleased with Darkstorm's "The Black Stone" in 2008.

4) Wind was a dark ambient project from Finland, formed in 1998 by Mikko Virkki aka Wircki (also in Hin Onde). His style, described as surrealistic neoclassical music with sinister synths and haunting atmosphere, has been compared to that of Devil Doll. Wind changed name to Varjosielu in 2000.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wind">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.