Wingtip Sloat was an indie rock band from northern Virginia that was formed by Andrew Dubuc, Patrick Foster and Dave Bishop in 1990. 

Rising from the ashes of Empty Box, a college rock quartet that played mainly around the Charlottesville, Virginia area from 1986-1988. Drummer Bishop, bassist Dubuc and guitarist Foster (all of whom had a hand in publishing the Sweet Portable You fanzine) were initally joined by guitarist Brad Maylor (who had played drums in the final lineup of Empty Box). 
The four-man Sloat lineup played several shows at legendary Washington D.C. club dc space and recorded a four-song demo at Inner Ear Studios, with Dischord Records with veteran Geoff Turner as a producer. 

Maylor left the band near the end of 1990 and Sloat carried on as a trio, tightening their sound and focusing on home recording. Released in May of 1991, their 4-song 7" M31 garnered significant attention in the burgeoning indie-rock world. Positive feedback earned them shows with Pavement, Thinking Fellers Union Local 282 and Sebadoh. 
Their next release, the double 7" Half Past I've Got, extended their weirdly original mix of Flying Nun hooks, DC-punk drive and outsider vision, it became a favorite of BBC DJ John Peel; the seminal tastemaker even raved about the trio to Rolling Stone magazine. 
After agreeing to a deal with VHF Records (operated by Rake's Bill Kellum), the group worked on recording their debut full-length during 1993-94, scrapping several versions of the disc iin favor of releasing numerous compilation tracks and then a third 7-inch, Return of the Night of the Ardent Straggler, which contained a glorious cover of the Tall Dwarfs' Beauty. Long out of print, the music from this 1990-1994 period was re-released as a compilation Add This To Rhetoric in 2007 on VHF Records.

Chewyfoot, Sloat's first CD, was finally released in late 1994. The 10-song effort continued their homemade production, containing some of their longest and most memorable songs. In typical fashion, work on the followup took a backseat to intermittent shows, compilation releases and long breaks from the public view; though the trio never wavered from their twice-weekly practice sessions. 
Their last official release, If Only For the Hatchery, eventually saw the light of day in early 1998. A few local shows, memorably with Spoon, Sonic Youth and Mike Watt, took place druing this period. 
The group then retreated into semi-obscurity, practicing and recording at home as frequently as ever, but making no public appearances. This pattern continued until mid-summer 2004, when the band went into a more formal hibernation, coinciding with Bishop's move to Louisville, Kentucky. 
Around this time, reports surfaced that they had nearly finished a long-rumored third album. 
In 2018 they finally released a massive third album, Purge And Swell/The Lost Decade which was issued partialy on vinyl record, partialy on a CD. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wingtip+Sloat">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.