Wings in Motion is a modern metal band from Greece, formed in September 2008, by guitarists Tasos Asonitis and Pete Tross.

Along came Constantine, the keyboardist, and right after followed the singer of the band, Andre Boutos.
On the bass guitar and the drums there have been several changes through these years to end up with the current lineup featuring George Constantinou on the bass and Defkalion on the drums.

A few words about the band's style, it combines heavy and aggressive riffing, with melodic elements that give their sound a whole new dimension ,fact that is enhanced by the constant switching between brutal and clean vocals.

Up until 2010, WIM spread their name by performing live around Greece and having recorded a demo of their first two songs.
In summer 2010, the band signed up with Wild Rose Angel Promotions,in order to promote their music and reach a bigger audience. Positive comments about the band's work came from all over the world, but that was only the beginning.

2011 has been a very busy and succesful year for the band. WIM had already begun the recordings of their first promo cd by 2010, and at late March 2011 the promo was released, achieving big acceptance by fans and critics. The Promo included four of the songs that will feature in the band's upcoming album.
It wasn't until April 2011 that the band shooted their first music video for one of their promo cd songs, "Through the Shadows",which also received, and keeps receiving, a very positive feedback by the fans.
At April 2011,the band's work was also presented at Musikmesse 2011 in Frankfurt, by Wild Rose Angel, to gain the attention of many music product manufacturers.
In July, the band won The Battle of the Bands Contest for the year 2010-2011, after having to compete with 34 other great bands from around Greece, surely one of the biggest highlights in the band's progress up until 2011.
Just a few days after winning the first place, Wings In Motion were asked to play as special guests in one of the biggest music festivals in Greece, the Schoolwave Fest, at which have also performed live in the past some of the most succesfull metal bands in Europe like Firewind and Septic Flesh.

Right now the band is busy writing new material for their first record and playing live.

One thing is for sure, there will be a lot more to come!
See you on stage everyone! Till then...
Keep your wings always in motion. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wings+in+Motion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.