Wino can refer to an American metal band, an American noise rock band, a Japanese alternative rock band, or a Louisiana awesome band.

1) Wino is the name of the new band of Scott 'Wino' Weinrich of Saint Vitus, The Obsessed, Spirit Caravan and The Hidden Hand-fame.  They have released one album 'Punctuated Equilibrium' in 2009. Shortly after the supporting European tour in April Wino's bass player Jon Blank died of an overdose. The follow up to Punctuated Equilibrium, called Adrift, was released in 2010, along with a live recording of their performance from Roadburn 2009.

2) Wino (from Louisville) were largely inspired by Swans, Crain and the Amphetamine Reptile roster, Wino were one of the loudest, darkest and most eclectic bands in Louisville during the 1990s, and their influence can be heard today in loads of Louisville bands. Expertly digitally remastered from all of the original master tapes by Alan Douches at West West Side Music (Converge, High On Fire), A Bottle Of Pills With A Bullet Chaser is the perfect commemoration to the band that inspired dozens of later Louisville bands and helped launch Temporary Residence a dozen years ago.

3) WINO (pronounced "wine-oh") ワイノ  is a Japanese alternative rock band made up of Jun Yoshimura (vocals), Naoyuki Hisanaga (guitar), Shin'ichiro Togawa (guitar), Hiroyuki Kawazoe (bass) and Masataka Kuronuma (drums) active from 1995 until 2002.  Their music was heavily influenced by British alternative rock, particularly Oasis. One of WINO's biggest hits was "Taiyou Wa Yoru Mo Kagayaku", the second opening in the popular anime Hunter × Hunter.  They have released 5 studio albums: Useless Music, Wino, Dirge No. 9, Everlast and Lion, and one best of collection.  Their CDs have been released on Victor Entertainment's label Speedstar Records.

4] wino from louisiana rad as hell but broke up haha <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wino">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.