There are two bands exists as Winters Dawn.

1 - (German) Winters Dawn: In summer of 91 Marko Schmidt (Drums) and Lars Lipkau (Guitar) formed the Band Distance. After a short while Dirk Schmidt joined the Band and played the second guitar. The first own songs followed shortly. Singer Mike Mäuer and Bass player completed the Line up. After  many new Band names, the first 3 track Demo "Frozen Tears" was Recorded in Febraury 93 under "Winters Dawn". At the end of this Year Lars and Marcel leave the Band and in Jürgen Cichon (Guitar) and Ray Afsa (Bass) the Band get completed again. In April 94 the five young musicians (at the age of 18) recorded the second Demo "The Ancient Seal of Ruins....sleeps in Blue Water". Through personal problems the old member Lars played again the Guitar and from now Cristioph Preuss is the man who played Bass. After som Local gigs the Band broke up in the Year 95.
(edited by JackFrost76

2 - (Greek) Winters Dawn was formed in 1998 by Thanos (bass) and Dimitris Tsiafas (drums), went through various line-up changes and did a few shows in local venues, until 2000 when Thanos and John Christodoulou (ex-guitars) came across Stelios "Theo" (vocals). It was then apparent that the band was ready to record its first CD "Nitro" which was completely self-financed and promoted. Released in late 2003, it got raving reviews around the globe, shaking up the minds of those who thought heavy metal was dead. The decision to record a full length CD was immediate and the song-writing begun. John (ex-guitars) left the band due to musical differences. Meanwhile, Stelios "Theo" (vocals) relocated to Germany, which made communication and getting together a problem. He had to fly several times to Greece in order to record his vocals and Thanos (bass) had to record the guitars while in search for a guitarist. The new album "The Winter Is Dawning" was ready in early 2008, yet no lead guitarist seemed to share the vision of the band for 80's emotional solos. Then came Ili (guitars), a former bandmate of Stelios "Theo" (vocals) who had the playing style the band was after. The Winter Is Dawning is more than the the expected evolution of the band. It is a perfect mix of power, melodies and feelings. That is why 3 excellent musicians and icons in the metal genre like Jeff Waters of Annihilator, Theodore Ziras and Chris Caffery believed in the band and recorded 5 incredible solos. Anthimos Manti took on the role on guitar along with Ili, making the band stronger than ever. The band is proud to announce its collaboration with and signing to Heart Of Steel Records. The CD was released on 15 May 2009.

The Greek Winters Dawn at Myspace <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Winters+Dawn">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.