Winterburst is a French band of Symphonic Black Metal formed in June 2009 with the arrival of Vorender as vocalist. Before this, Kyll and Jörm (guitars), Terias (keyboards), Freyr (bass) and Shainsaw (drums) already worked on the first songs which will compose the 6 tracks of their Demo.
Produced in December 2009 at the Studio Sainte-Marthe, it's released as soon as it's finished and receives a warm welcome on behalf of the public and the critics. The band approaches historic and mythological themes, expresses its fury and melancholy within at once epic and dark atmospheres. In this universe mainly inspired by the Scandinavian bands of the Extreme Scene, we find numerous influences of other horizons which reflect the musical richness of the group. 

2010 is the opportunity occasion for Winterburst to play live on numerous occasions to share its music and its pleasure to be in touch with the audience.

2011, the combo dedicates itself to the writing of its first album where the symphonic orchestrations will take a more important dimension and where the riffs will be more aggressive than in the past. In the middle of the year, Winterburst is chosen to play at the contest organized in Lyon by Metallian for the Wacken Metal Battle. Although it has not been chosen to go to the festival, the band totaly appreciated this opportunity which was given to it to play outside of the Paris area by meeting an overexcited audience.
But the time was not to idleness and the group worked even more intensely to finalize the writing of its new opus. Kyll and Terias are there again the two main composers. 
For reasons which are personal to them, Jörm and Freyr are no longer aboard, but Winterburst takes back the road of the Studio Sainte-Marthe in December 2011 for 3 workweeks along with Guillaume Mauduit.
A more personal and precisely worked sound, epic orchestrations allied to devastating blasts, the band is finally ready to reveal the immersed part of the iceberg which had been created with the Demo.

"The Mind Cave", an album composed of 12 tracks for nearly seventy minutes of an ambitious and epic Symphonic Black Metal.

Line up
Vorender - Vocals
Kyll - Guitars
Terias - Keyboards
Shainsaw - Drums

Discography
2010 - Winterburst (Demo)
2012 - The Mind Cave

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Winterburst">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.