Winter of Life are an Italian band, made up by Peppe Sgrò (guitars), Elia Daniele (vocals), Dario Bellicoso (guitars), Claudio Vitiello (bass guitars), Geky Capaccio (drums) and Dimitri Tetta (keyboards). They play Alternative Progressive Metal, open to many influences. Winter of Life have left aside the more Gothic sounds, in order to exalt the more Indie-Progressive ones. Their debut album, "Mother Madness", has been published with world-wide distribuition on the 25th of May 2009 by Casket Music /Copro Records.

Winter of Life were formed in 2000. In 2003 they released a Demo, “Parentheses”, and, in 2009, a full length, "Mother Madness", recorded and mixed in Rome at the Outer Sound Studios (Novembre, Klimt 1918, Stormlord, Necrodeath) by Giuseppe Orlando, and mastered in Helsinki at the Finnvox Studios (Sentenced, Children of Bodom, Him, Apocalyptica,etc) by Mika Jussila, with artwork made by Seth Siro Anton (Paradise Lost, Moonspell, Soilwork, Oceansize). In Febraury 2009 the band signed a deal with English label Casket Music, a Copro Records division, and a management deal with Alkemist Fanatix Europe.

Mother Madness was supported by an European tour and a UK tour and also with the partecipation in the MetalFest Open Air Hungary, supporting bands like Nevermore, Lamb of God, Sonata Arctica, Marduk, Vader, Anathema, Novembre, Destruction and many more.

Metal.it, probably the most important italian webzine, describes WoL as:
"... Winter of Life are one of those bands which are difficult to classify because of the music they propose, which has these days slightly abandoned the more goth sound, being nevertheless dark and obscure, embracing a certain type of prog. There are many recalls to melodic death metal and to jazz passages, which make clear that the band doesn't impose itself any bounds. What's the difference between Winter of Life and the other Italian bands? It's in the band's ability to dare, to know how to be nonconformist, Winter of Life are aware of their own possibilities and don't try to overdo things, leaving their emotions and artistic mood to flow in their songs, careless of what could come out of this. Winter of Life are placed among the big bands of our music scene, the more peculiar one, which sees Novembre and Klimt 1918 as its biggest representatives. From today these bands will have to watch their backs, because someone is trying to take their place. Winter of Life, Italian Opeth? Only time will tell..." . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Winter+of+Life">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.