1.
Wintermoon Germany was formed in July 2002 by Argathon.

In 2005, Asagh became a constant Member of Wintermoon
to replace Necroripper (R.I.P) on Drums.
Wintermoon was created to keep the original spirit
of Black Metal.

Discography 
Kingdom of Hate (Demo, 2003)
Sorrow & Hate (Full-lenght, 2005)
Arroganz (Full-lenght, 2006)
Dogma (Full-lenght, 2010)

2.
WinterMoon is a musical project born in Almada (Portugal), in late autumn of 2001.
Zapping WinterMoon's History:
2001 -
WinterMoon is born in Almada (Portugal), in late Autumn of 2001. This band, brought to life by Nuno Correia and João Sousa, has as main purpose a blend of mildly aggressive metal based styles to a whole melodic and melancholic universe, given by the instrumental as well as by Cláudia Ferreira’s voice. 

2003 -
In May of 2003, they record “WinterMoon”, their debut EP, with the goal of showing their music to some portuguese and foreign labels and distributors. 

2005 -
In 2005, WinterMoon reaches the second place at Almada’s Modern Music Contest (Portugal), from a total of 25 registered bands. 

2007 - 
In 2007, WinterMoon records Down Under, their debut album, recorded at Tocá Rufar Estúdios (Portugal), engineered by Nuno Rebocho and Carlos Cruz and mixed and mastered by Miguel Fonseca, from Thormentor and Bizarra Locomotiva. 

3.
A Finnish black metal band, formed in -94, split-up, but reformed somewhen in 2016–2017. First tape was "dark winter music" - mostly instrumental atmospheric tracks. Second demo is atmospheric black/dark metal and has been released as a split CD with Wanderer by Werewolf Records.

Last known line-up:
Wanderer
Ragmar
Azhemin (Nomicon, ex-Shape of Despair, Soulgrind (Fin), Thy Serpent, ex-Wanderer (Fin))

Discography:
Rehearsal Demo 1/1995 (Demo, 1995)
The Mightiest Stand Above (Demo, October 1995)
Wanderer / Wintermoon (Split, 2008)

4.
Winter Moon is a Blues/Alt Rock/Psychedelic Rock band from Melbourne, Australia.  From humble beginnings as an acoustic duo, in just one year Winter Moon have gone from open-mic nights in dingy hotels with beer-stained carpets to headlines at some of Melbourne’s finest music venues- where not only the carpets but the walls, ceiling and stage bear the odd, brown markings of beer and music-fuelled revelry. 

Now operating as a five-piece, including the usual array of members- and a flute, Winter Moon take their cues from some of the greatest rock and blues bands of the ‘60s and ‘70s. With an enthralling live show, fusing psychedelic blues-rock with a modern edge and vintage sensibilities, this band has forged itself a solid presence as an original force of music in the Melbourne scene.

Members: Jake Winter, Milly Moon, Andrej Morgan, Chloe Faith, Muzz Whitson <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wintermoon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.