WINTER OF SIN is a Dutch death/black metal band that was formed several years ago by Ricardo and Dirk. The band released a first demo, Hailstorm, in 2000. This demo was elected demo of the month in the German Metal Hammer. A second demo, Obscura, was recorded in 2002, and in 2006 and 2008, two full-length CD's, Woest and Razernij, were released by CCP records from Austria. During those years, Winter of Sin played live on several gigs in Europe, supporting great black metal and death metal acts, such as Taake, Cirith Gorgor, Mörk Gryning, Ancient, Asphyx, and Negura Bunget.

Winter of Sin initially started out as a melodic black metal band, but gradually shifted towards more aggressive and much faster death/black metal. This change in style was accompanied by several line-up changes. After a break, Winter of Sin entered the studio again in 2012, with a completely new line-up, consisting of original members Ricardo and Dirk, and Henri (God Dethroned) and Michiel (God Dethroned, Prostitute Disfigurement). The new album was recorded at the Soundlodge studio in Leer, Germany, and mixed by Jörg Uken, who, among others, also recorded some God Dethroned albums.

The new album, consisting of 10 tracks, is far more extreme and aggressive than all previous releases, as a result of a shift in musical style, but also as a result of Henri's distinct aggressive vocals, and Michiel's insane drumming. The music still is highly melodic, a key feature of Winter of Sin since the beginning, but is also characterized by abundant blast beats and brutal riffing. The lyrics of the new album, called Violence Reigns Supreme, deal with the destruction of mankind by an unknown dominant extraterrestrial force. The grim and unforgiving lyrics on this album were inspired by both some war movies, and sci-fi movies that were released in the past decade, but without the often obligatory sparkle of hope shown in these movies. We all shall die. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Winter+Of+Sin">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.