Winter in Eden, a dark yet beautiful cocktail of power and passion. 

Their music builds from delightful symphonic instrumentals to crunching aggressive Metal.  It is identifiable by its compelling vocals, muscular riffs, memorable hooks, swirling keyboards together with pounding bass and thunderous drums.

Between 2009 and 2013, Winter in Eden have released two full length albums, two EP’s and have entertained fans with numerous tours and festival appearances.  The debut album 'Awakening' was recognised as one of the albums of the year.  The track 'Lies', from 'Echoes of Betrayal' was awarded Classic Rock Magazine’s 'track of the day' and they have been nominated for ‘Best New Band’ (2012/2013), ‘Best Live Act’ (2013/2014) and ‘Best Female Singer’ (2012/2013/2014) at the UK’s annual Classic Rock Society Awards.

Towards the end of 2014, Winter In Eden released their highly anticipated third studio album ‘Court of Conscience’.  Recorded in Holland, it contains eleven songs which build and further refine the unique style that is Winter in Eden.  Produced by Ruud Jolie (Within Temptation) and mixed by Stefan Helleblad (Within Temptation), it contains live strings and also features guest vocals by Jermain van der Bogt (For All We Know/Ayreon) and Nathaly Heijne with an unmistakeable narrative by multi-award winning Damian Wilson (Threshold/Headspace/Maiden United).  The result is powerful, modern and balanced.  The album continues to be extremely well received as evidenced by Guitar Techniques Magazine who made it their ‘Album of the Month’ and Powerplay Magazine who awarded it a full score of ten.

Winter In Eden’s energetic live performances have been enjoyed throughout the UK and Europe alongside many artists including Delain (NL), The Pineapple Thief (UK) and Coma (PL).  When not playing to capacity crowds whilst touring, they can often be witnessed captivating new fans on festival stages.  Most notably, during main-stage performances at Cambridge Rock Festival, The Dames of Darkness Festival and when chosen to headline the UK’s first ever Symphonic Rock/Metal festival: Northern Symphony.

 “Winter in Eden are the best female-fronted symphonic rock band Britain has to offer right now” - Classic Rock Magazine

“The patronage of the biggest act in female-fronted symph prog must be earned and sure enough, Winter in Eden fulfil their side of the bargain” – Prog Magazine

“Albums as wonderful as this one from new British bands do not come along every day. It has been a complete revelation to me” – Fireworks Magazine

“The band stands out for their song writing, their vocals and their musicianship. And they’re British too. Every song on here is first class” – Powerplay Magazine

“Fabulous set by a band destined for greatness” - Classic Rock Society

“All the quality and all the potential” - Dominion/Terroriser
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Winter+In+Eden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.