Winterwolf was formed to spread the message of Old-School Death Metal in the year 1997 in Maaninka,Finland. Maaninka is a very isolated and small village in Middle Finland, and there were only three metalheads among the elders and the fools. Those three metalheads (Corpse, Possessed Keripukki & Telaketju) were possessed with bands like Morbid Angel, Deicide, Venom, Bolt Thrower and Celtic Frost, and they wanted to create the same atmosphere with their own music. Intense practising took place and Corpse started to save his money, so they could record and release a decent demo tape. In the year 2000 Winterwolf entered the famous Studio Perkele, which was ran by Satanic Jämsen (Barathrum, Devilry, Wizzard, Urn), and they recorded their first demo "Death...Will Come Your Way". The demo was a decent work of a young band, but still there were lot's of areas in which they needed to improve. Year later was the time for the second attack to Studio Perkele, and the result was a demo titled "Blood For Death". Blood For Death showed lots of developement in all areas, but sadly it would be the final recording with the original line-up...

Corpse decided to move to Kuopio (City in Middle Finland), because he wanted the band to have a better chance to be known. Unfortunately the other guys stayed in Maaninka, so Corpse had to find new members to continue with him. At the time Kuopio was full of talented young players, so there were no problems of finding new members. After few practise runs with the new line-up it became clear, that the music style had changed so much that a new name was to be found. After naming the band as "Deathchain" the journey of Winterwolf seemed to reach it's end.

Winterwolf was dead but dreaming for five years, but the call of the moon was irresistable and so the awakening happened in 2007. Corpse spent two years in solitude with Winterwolf, but in the year 2009 he recruited Abomanitor (Demilich), Pestilence (Delirium's Order), Insane (Delirium's Order) and Rotten (Survivors Zero) to join his quest for true Death! Winterwolf was complete again, and the band started to write material for their first full lenght titled "Cycle Of The Werewolf". The band encountered some problems with the record label that was going to release the album on the first place, and so they dissambled the deal. Luckily Xtreem Music found Winterwolf through Abomanitor's connections, and they agreed to publish the album on LP and CD. Cycle Of The Werewolf is finally unleashed, and again the howling echoes in the night!!!!
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Winterwolf">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.