There are two artists using the name Wise Guys

1) An A Cappella group from Cologne, Germany
2) An Italian hardcore band from New Jersey.

The Wise Guys was a popular A Cappella group from Cologne, Germany. They were the most prominent representatives of A Cappella music in Germany. Their tantalizing combination of catchy tunes and amusing lyrics have attracted many fans. The group has existed since 1995 with the members Daniel Dickopf (Dän), Marc Sahr (Sari), Edzard Hüneke (Eddi), Clemens Tewinkel and Ferenc Husta who replaced the former bassist Christoph Tettinger. Tettinger moved on to be the band's manager. As of 2009, Clemens Tewinkel left the group and was replaced by Nils Olfert. Fenerc Husta left in 2012 and was replaced by former Flying Pickets member Andrea Figallo. Björn Sterzenbach replaced him in 2016.

The Wise Guys were always on the verge of commercial success. Their last six albums all reached the top 10 of the German album charts, while they still played lots of smaller concerts all over Germany. They were also famous for their annual six hour charity concert "Totalnacht". Since 2001 they also hold the world record of most spectators (12,500 visitors) for an A Cappella concert of an individual group. They also played for several years at the "Evangelischer Kirchentag", an event for German protestants; one time performing in front of more than 70,000 spectators.

Their album Zwei Welten appeared 2012 in an A Cappella version and also in a version where most songs were re-recorded with traditional band setup (drums, bass, guitar etc.) and those don't stand back from the original versions.

The Wise Guys announced that they were to stop performing as a group in autumn 2017. Many of the members of Wise Guys went on to form the group Alte Bekannte.

2) Wise Guys is an Italian hardcore punk band from New Jersey. With 2 separate albums and ongoing shows in Eastern PA and NJ tour plans are being made, keep your eye out
http://www.facebook.com/Wiseguysnj
http://wiseguysnj.bandcamp.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wise+Guys">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.