Thre are at least four bands with this name.

a) a solo acoustic indie act currently based and playing in London (no known success)
b) a british Rock band, successful in the 70's with the song "Hiroshima"
c) a Jazz band
d) a punk/rock band from Melbourne, Australia (disbanded in 2007). Released two full length albums: "Standing Still" and "Kicking Goals, Banging Goals And High Fives All Round". 

----------------

More information relating to (c) above:

The Best of Wishful Thinking: West Coast Contemporary Jazz 1985-1990

"Whenever I wanted to include what I considered a classic up-tempo contemporary-jazz track; I inevitably added Wishful Thinking to the mix."
Michael Fagien, Publisher JAZZIZ Magazine.

"Wishful Thinking is fantastic."
Larry Coryell,Guitarist

JazzTimes Interview, April 1992

Since it's a rare occasion to find a music critic (let alone a publisher !) and a musician sharing a favorable opinion, the two quotations above best illustrate the universal appeal and critical acclaim Wishful Thinking enjoyed during its' five years as a West Coast contemporary-jazz unit.

The band, whose distinctive sound centered around a frontline of vibes and guitar, was formed in late 1984 by guitarist Tim Weston. Other members included legendary Tower of Power drummer David Garibaldi, well-known L.A. arranger/orchestrator Chris Boardman on keyboards, bassist Jerry Watts Jr., and Dave Shank on vibes and percussion. During its final year, drummer Vinnie Colaiuta and keyboardist Mitchel Forman joined the group for its last recording ("That Was Then") and what was to be the band's only European appearance; the 1990 North Sea Jazz Festival.

Wishful Thinking released four recordings featuring original compositions between 1985 and 1990. It's debut album "Wishful Thinking", endorsed by Steely Dan's Walter Becker, hit Radio & Records' Top Ten Jazz chart in February of 1986. It's follow-up album "Think Again" also reached "Top Ten" status the next year and was the group's first recording to chart in Billboard and Cashbox as well. "Way Down West"; their third and perhaps best known work, was released in late 1988; not only reaching Top Ten airplay status, but in March of 1989, went "Top Ten" on the Billboard Top Contemporary Jazz album sales chart. Wishful Thinking released its' fourth and final recording "That Was Then" in the fall of 1990. A review of that CD, which hails "an album as lively and uninhibited as it is melodic and accessible" would accurately describe the band's entire body of work.

"Train Of Thought" chronicles the Best of Wishful Thinking; a collection featuring twelve of the band's most popular selections, digitally re-mastered from the original recordings. Through it's four previously released albums, it's numerous live radio broadcasts, jazz festival appearances and concert/club performances; Wishful Thinking defined the cutting edge of the West Coast contemporary jazz movement.

Fan appreciation and Jazz/NAC radio support remain strong even today; 18 years after the group played it's last note at the 1990 North Sea Jazz Festival! This can best be attributed to the lasting spirit and quality of the bands' music; once again made available in this compilation CD: "Train Of Thought." <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wishful+Thinking">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.