Witchburner is a thrash metal band formed in Kalbach, Germany in 1992. 

Witch Burner was a two-man band of Tankred Best and Florian Schmidt 1992. After a few rehearsals, the first demo under the title "Future Tales" recorded, but which due to its low production is not officially sold.

After a few gigs, the band for a short time on ice, because Tankred Best guitarist in the band "DRUNK DEVIL" aushalf. DRUNK DEVIL was again dissolved in 1996 have Tankred Best, Tony Skudlarek, Florian Schmitt and Simon Seegel joined to the name Witch Burner continues to live. In the same year was the first CD "WITCH BURNER" in self-directed and limited to 500 copies published. After a few gigs Florian Schmitt had left the band and was replaced by Christoph inconvenience.

Several gigs and a small tour were subsequently challenged before 1998 went into the studio again for the second CD "Blasphemic Assault yourself, which some time later at Undercover Rec was released.

After these recordings Tankred left the band and was established by Patrick Kremer and Andreas Schäddel replaced. But Andrew had a short time after the band left. From now on, changed positions on drums steadily until 1999 in Balor a suitable person was found. Again changed the cast as Christopher and Tony left the band. The bass was replaced by Andy Süss position. In September 2000, two songs from the "Future Tales" demo and "Blood is flowing" deer. recorded, both on the "United Forces of Metal Raging War" Split Ep with "Blizzard" appeared. Ep was released by the Iron Bonehead Productions in a limited edition of 666 pieces.

Tankred worked as a guest guitarist on these recordings. But Balor had left the band because of the stress with his two other bands were too large, he was replaced by Volker Rössler. In May 2001 the band went into the studio again for their third CD "Incarnation Of Evil" yourself, which in August again with Undercover Rec was released.
After a few gigs left Volker also for professional reasons the band. After a brief search was quickly found matching replacement. The post as the second guitarist took over immediately and Marcel on drums now sits Felix


In April `02 appeared in a live split-Picture` 10, "ABIGAIL" limited to 500Stück. A short time later, the song "Die With Pride" for a 4-Split EP with Derketa, Gravewürm and Sadomaniac recorded, which appeared in Iron Bonehead. In September, the "German Thrashing War" MCD, which then RIP Records in the U.S. was released, while the vinyl version of the band as its own production was rausgebracht. Then Maniacal Records appeared in the Dead City (Violent Force Cover Song) EP. In 2004, the song "False Guardians" for a split EP with Bitterness, which on Ipnotica Danza Records from Italy was published.


In early 2005 began with the production of the fifth album "Final Detonation". While recording Patrick left for personal reasons the band. By Andy quickly became a suitable replacement is found on vocals. However, since all texts had to be rewritten, the production was shelved for some time and was only completed in August. For the cover painting was this Jowita Kamińska instructed, inter alia, even for Exodus, attacks, Manilla Road, Metal Inquisitor, etc. worked. Was published "Final Detonation" on CD on 24.10.05 at Undercover Records and the vinyl version followed a few weeks later.


In January 2007, the production of the sixth album, "Blood Of Witches" started, which was then in June at Evil Spell Records was published. For the cover, we have again decided to Jowita Kamińska the whole again an attractive appearance has missed. The vinyl version was released in October with the bonus track "Agent Orange" of Sodom in an edition of 500 pcs <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witchburner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.