The Witche's Brew history officially begins in 2008 when Mirko Zonca (pioneer of psychedelic grunge with the Nofuzz at the end of the 80es) and Mirko Bosco (former guitar player of the historical hard core band Disper-Azione in the mid 80es), after various collaborations and solo projects, meet to give life to a joint effort.
The idea is to propose a power trio heavily influenced by the 70es sound, in a decisively more aggressive and stout key, still maintaining the vintage impact element.
The input of Yggy Leonetti, a session man of progressive training, allows the band to perform in various live acts and to record their first mini LP during an austrian concert. The album is issued by "Costa Ovest Records" from Pisa and distributed by "Andromeda Dischi". YggY Leonetti leaves the band in 2009 and is replaced by Jos Solci and the band faces the recording of White Trash Sideshow; their first studio album, produced by the prestigious Black Widow Records (label of Pentagram, Death Row, Delirium, Wicked Mind etc.)
The record is for sale in 2010 and it quickly gains the favours of the critics, also thanks to an extreme and counter current sound production, as a fierce and straightforward album.
In January 2011, Frankie Brando replaces Solci, bringing back the sound of Witche's Brew to their unmistakable outset, structurally more acid and claustrophobic, enforcing the rocky impact parameter.
In June 2011, the Witche's Brew is once again in the studio. The band, for this production, will avail of the precious collaborations of some historical characters of the international Rock scene like, Nik Turner (from Hawkwind), Steve Sylvester (Vocals of Death SS and current leader of Sancta Sanctorum and more....). At last, a new entry: Ricky DalPane from the prog rock band BUTTERED BACON BISCUITS became the singer of Witche's Brew Band in SUPERSONICSPEEDFREAKS Album (released in february 2012). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witche%27s+Brew">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.