Initially conceived by guitarist Fernando de Almeida (Pettalom)
project as a traditional metal at the end of 2001, the
Witchlust took airs band itself in early 2002. After
invitations to some musicians in the scene (among them guitarist Luciano
Baptised In Ice in the band, who did not join aa band for not understanding
able to devote himself 100%) and testing (the lead singer came to Camilo
integrate the project in the beginning) as the first official had Witchlust
upbringing, besides Fernando, vocalist Mark Riva (also the Pettalom)
Marcelo Bento guitarist, drummer and bassist Ednilton Cafe. After
some trials the band entered the studio, featuring the bassist ja
Sheila instead of Ednilton, around June 2002, to register
their first demo tape (The Witch Tapes), with four songs, among
which stands out the first version of the classic (for fans)
"Witchlust. Strongly influenced by eighties metal (Maiden,
Judas, Saxon, Manowar) presented the demo to the band of bangers and Tatui
region, receiving good reviews, including the respected journal
Roadiecrew. In 2003 Witchlust recording new demo, this time taking as
especially the song "Heavy Metal is the Law", generating some calls for
concerts in the region. In this era, there was a change: Out Cafe, entered
Henry. However, not all smooth sailing in that period. Shortly after the
launching this demo, Witchlust suffers a blow: in less than three
months, left the band drummer Henry, bassist and vocalist Sheila
Mark Riva. The remaining members decide to go ahead by calling
initially the drummer Evan (Baptised In Ice). For the remaining vacancies
were invited newcomers Camilo (vocals) and Endri (bass). In early
2004 the band was already recomposed, rehearsing a lot in order to return to
scenario. Since then, the cities of Tatui, Sorocaba, Mercy, Avare,
Iper, Itapetininga Itapeva, Boituva and shells, are all within
Paul, since they might confer the new formation. In December 2004,
the band recorded another demo containing the songs "Cry for Freedom" and
"Empire of Lies." The impact once again and good yielding invitations
for shows in the city and region Tatui. After the launch the demo,
bassist Endri solves "abandon ship" and is readily
replaced by bassist Sheila, who accepted the invitation to return pa
band. After acquiring experience on stage in the region between 2004 and 2006,
the band entered the studio together with producer Gustavo Campos
(Menacer) to record her debut CD, entitled "Witch in time"
Released in July 2007. In November 2007, another change in line-up:
exits and enters Rodrigo Marcelo Bento Momberg. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witchlust">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.