Witchery is a Swedish thrash metal band, formed by former members of Satanic Slaughter in 1997. To date, the band has released five full length studio albums and an EP.

It began in 1997 when their cult band Satanic Slaughter splintered, Witchery started as guitarists Patrik Jensen (The Haunted) and Rille Rimfält, vocalist Toxine, drummer Mique, and bassist Sharlee D'Angelo (Arch Enemy, Mercyful Fate). 
In 1998 they recorded and released their debut, Restless And Dead by Necropolis Records. Later that year, Witchery released the Witchburner minialbum. The EP featured two originals and four cover songs bearing witness to the individual musicians’ influences. In 1999, Witchery embarked on a U.S. tour with Emperor and Borknagar. 
Their second full-length album, Dead, Hot and Ready, was unleashed soon thereafter, and a six-week early 2000 European tour followed. 
Symphony For The Devil, the band’s 2001 release, was recorded at Berno Studio (Amon Amarth, Dark Funeral) in Malmö, Sweden, with the new drummer, Martin “Axe” Axenrot (Bloodbath, Opeth). Witchery returned to tour North America later that year with The Haunted. 
Returning to Berno Studios in 2004, the band recorded Don’t Fear The Reaper, this time entrusting mixing duties to Tue Madsen and his Antfarm Studios (The Haunted, Heaven Shall Burn, Himsa). After recording the album, the band signed a worldwide record deal with Century Media.

In April 2010 accomplished black metal singer Legion (Erik Hagsted, ex-Marduk, ex-Devian) joined the band to replace Toxine who had to drop out because of schedule issues. According to the press release the split happened by mutual agreement. The new album entitled Witchkrieg (an obvious pun on Blitzkrieg) was released on June 21st, 2010. The new album features Kerry King from metal legends Slayer playing a solo on the title track Witchkrieg. On the 19th of June, 2010, the band played at the annual Metaltown festival in Gothenburg. 

Erik "Legion" Hagstedt - Vocals (2010-) (Ophthalamia, Devian, Marduk (Swe))
Patrik Jensen - Guitars (1997-) (The Haunted, Brujeria, Seance (Swe), Satanic Slaughter, Orchriste)
Richard Corpse (Rille Rimfält) - Guitars (1997-) (Seance (Swe))
Sharlee D'Angelo - Bass (1997-) (Arch Enemy, Sinergy, Illwill, Dismember (Swe), Mercyful Fate, Facelift, Spiritual Beggars)
Martin Axe - Drums (1999-) (Nephenzy Chaos Order, Nifelheim (Swe), Satanic Slaughter, Triumphator (Swe), Morgue (Swe), Bloodbath (Swe), Opeth)
A little update,HAIL LEGION!!!!!!!!!!

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witchery">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.