There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Witchcraft are a doom metal band from Sweden. Strongly inspired by the early '70s rock, they play with a heavy and slightly psychedelic rock style typical of other similar stoner doom metal bands. Their music is commonly compared to the likes of Black Sabbath, Pentagram and Jethro Tull. They have released four well-received full length albums to date.

2) Witchcraft were a USA duo whose music was of a highly imaginative and original style that could be considered avant-garde. John Buehler - vocals, keyboards, drum machines, percussion, vocoder & design. Andrew Arbetter - guitar. Although Witchcraft have disbanded since, these two albums remain perennial favorites and are testament to a unique band that produced a genuinely original sound

3) Witchcraft was a Croatian speed metal band, formed in 1987. by Dejan Katalenic (a.k.a. Dean Harder). The first lineup was Dean Katalenic on guitars, Sinisa Vuco on main vocals, Milan Cojic on bass guitar,  Neno Munitic on guitars, Denis Garbic on harsh vocals and Silvio Skare - Braco on guitars and drums. 
In the years after 1991, the band had lots of lineup changes and tryouts, as Dejan was looking for the perfect voice for the band. Some of notable membes were Elvis Katic on drums, Davor Gradinski on bass and vocals, Goran Karan on vocals, and others too. The last vocalist was Ines Zizic, but the band finally disbanded in 2002. 

4) Witchcraft is a raw and old school Black Metal band from Hungary. They released their first album "Years of Blood" in 2006 via Regimental records. Previously they released two demos (On the Path of Fogs - 2000; Carpathian Fire - 2003) and a split with Gholgoth (Revelations Through the Veil of Oblivion - 2002). "Years of Blood" contains the re-recorded versions of the demo-songs and only one new song. The second album is  "Under the Crust" (Miriquidi Prod. 2008).

5) Witchcraft is Goa trance project released on Matsuri records in the late 90's.

6) Witchcraft is a Black Metal band from El Salvador, formed in the year of 1995. They started off as a side-project of the Melodic Black Metal band Dismal Gale however, Drummer - Rodrigo Artiga left the band. In 1998 they released their self entitled album "Witchcraft" The band is currently split up, to work more in Dismal Gale. The lyrical themes include Satanism, Witchcraft and Occultism.

7) Witchcraft is a traditional heavy metal from France. They released one three-track demo in 1983.

8) Witchcraft is a dark progressive metal band from Russia. The band formed in 2005. It was stated that it was a gothic band, but some time later the band started to mix different music styles and created a new experimental style called Dark Progressive Metal. The music of the artist is an unusual mixture of progressive, dark and Gothic metal. They have bright vocals, good technique of playing music.  In 2008 the band recorded their debut album "The Voice From Inside...", which included 8 songs of different periods. In 2010, the band recorded  the second album "Ash".

9) Witchcraft is a hardcore gabba artist from Holland. They formed in 1990. They were signed to the Dutch 5th Gear.

10) Witchcraft is a black metal band from Finland. They are the continuation of Finnish black metal band Black Feast and later Blasphemous Witchcraft. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witchcraft">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.