The foundations for Witchsmeller Pursuivant were laid around 1993 by Mike Santana, Paul Evrard and Luciver Vecken, Heavy Metal was their way,so it's not strange that Heavy Metal is their music. From 1995 they had a steady line-up, undoubtedly a cult was born, especially since Heavy Metal was 'not done' at those times. Still Witchsmeller often got the best reaction from the crowd. Their theatrical performance just didn't stay unnoticed and they soon got a cult following, called Smeller-Maniacs.

After Luc Geenen joined the band in 1998 they recorded and released their Cdemo 'Melissa's Birthday' which brought them to the famous Belgian Metal Club 'Biebob' , Batcave 013 Tilburg, Frontline Ghent and several youth clubs.

They kept on playing killer gigs in Belgium and abroad, sharing the stage with bands like Ancient, After Forever, Ancient Rites, Enthroned, the Belgian legend Killer, Goddess of Desire, Opera IX...

It was time to record a new album: their full length cult cd 'Enter Delirium' (2001). Even before the album was released, some of those new Smeller-songs became classic metal anthems on stage : just mention that a song like 'Caught In The Act' grabs the attention of the public for the whole 9 minutes long! Above that Witchsmeller are reknown for playing intense gigs with a decent duration.

At the end of 2001 Johan Kaal joined in to replace former axeman Roel Van Steenbergen. After some very succesful gigs (just mention the Kleudde festival in Belgium where Witchsmeller got their largest crowd ever, about 900 headbangers !!), it was clear that Johan really completed the band.

The new harder and faster Smellersongs they wrote are highly appreciated both by the fans and by Independent Metal Label Shiver Records and hence Witchsmeller Pursuivant got offered a record deal for two albums. The new Witchsmeller MANIFEST OF EVIL was released on December 6th,2007. The international release is set for January 2008 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witchsmeller+Pursuivant">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.