Formed in 1995, Withered Earth emerged from the ashes of "Disgorged" through Adam Bonacci and Chris Burgio. Possessing lyrics that deal with the true horror of real life, Withered Earth creates music that is not typical death metal. Punishing blast beats, which at times are more common to grind or hardcore, combine with dark and heavy guitar riffs. Adam Bonacci's vocals are disturbing and unforgiving. A live performance of Withered Earth is a chaotic orgy instigated by the aggression of the music, thereby possessing the musicians who play it and ultimately their audience.


Withered Earth unleashed its music to the world in 1995 through its demo entitled, "Abolish in Thorns", thus beginning a new dark age in metal. By the release of its second demo " Icaronycteris" in 1996, Withered Earth had claimed a stronghold in the metal underground.


In 1998, Withered Earth released its first full length "Forgotten Sunrise" in Europe through Cryptic Soul Productions (Italy). It was not released in the USA UNTIL 1999 through whitenoise records. Supporting the US release, Withered Earth toured the East Coast with Nile and monstrosity, and performed at numerous Metal fests including New England Metal and Hardcore fest, Milwaukee metal fest.


Withered Earth signed to Olympic Recordings in 2000 and released its debut CD "Into the Deepest Wounds" in spring of 2001. Withered Earth embarked on a tour of destruction in the spring of 2001, supporting Decide, Marduk and Gorguts. Upon the completion of the deicide tour, withered earth immediately joined Vader, Skinless, Origin and Impaled to continue the metal mayhem throughout the US. The touring proved to be too much for their original drummer, and he was replaced in September of 2001.


Withered Earth brought in brian spade as its new drummer, who brings more speed and grind to the band. bass player, toby bailey, left the band at the end of 2002 to pursue an original jazz band. Randy Butman, hailing from death metal capital Tampa, Florida officially joined withered earth in January 2003. Randy played bass with paths of possession and silhaven (Maggot records).


Withered earth completed recording of its second full length for Olympic recordings entitled "of which they bleed" at mars studio and dms studios. The cd package includes artwork from Derek hess, and was designed by the infamous sons of nero.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Withered+Earth">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.