Vancouver based, female fronted WITHOUT MERCY have certainly stayed
true to their name. These Canadian metal titans have cultivated a
death/thrash sound that combines a respect and dedication for both
genres. Their progressive hybrid sound has earned them an ever-growing
fan base in Canada. Coupled with a notorious reputation for throwing
down an unyielding live show, this up and coming four-piece have proved
that hardcore attitude can only equal hardcore results.
Following their 2007 EP All Else Fails, WITHOUT MERCY released
their self-titled, full-length debut in 2009. Recorded, mixed and mastered at
Vancouver’s legendary Factory Studios (Devin Townsend, Mudvayne,
Marilyn Manson), this release is the next evolution for WOM. “As the
culmination of over a year of writing, preparing and planning, we feel that
this album represents WITHOUT MERCY in its truest form” states guitarist
DJ Temple. “This is the first time we’ve really been able to articulate
musically and lyrically the ideas we’ve been developing since the band’s
inception” adds vocalist Alxs Ness.
Besides a strong work ethic and an epic sound, WOM has some behind the
scenes experience with vocalist Alxs’ gig as a journalist for ABORT
Magazine and Absolute Underground. She has interviewed some of the
biggest names in metal such as Cannibal Corpse, Testament and Arch
Enemy to name a few; giving WOM an advantage in understanding the
inner sanctum of a grueling and merciless business.
WOM has already shared the stage with Norwegian Black Metal legends
Satyricon, Taiwan’s Chthonic and Canadian favorites Divinity. In addition,
they were featured in the “What’s Da Buzz” section of the April Issue of Tattoo
Savage Magazine. Having just concluded their first tour of Western Canada, expect
to hear lot more from the band in the very near future as they make some key
appearances and prepare for their next tour. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Without+Mercy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.