Asked what it takes to start a band like Without Gravity, singer/guitarist Kalli might answer with a shrug: "A living room, two guitars and some time on your hands." And so it began in Reykjavik three years ago.
While other Icelandic musicians boasted about the power of their amplifiers, argued about the benefits of this music software or that, worried about the size of their biceps, or simply tried to outweird each other, then the seeds of Without Gravity were sown in private and comfort. Two friends, guitarist Konni and singer/guitarist Kalli, started spending the days together strumming out songlines and ideas for lyrics. As the songs took shape and the words found meaning they were joined by drummer/vocalist Grimsi and then double-bass player Helgi; and there was Without Gravity. Today, Helgi is no longer in the band, as he was replaced by double-bass/e.bass player Ottar.

Soon thereafter they started playing concerts in the tiniest of venues, living room sized bars, backrooms of cafes. And the rumour started spreading, that this was something worth listening to, something new, something big in its simplicity.

Yes, Without Gravity are no high concept retro prog-rockers, no metal-gurus, no electronic bleep-n-cuts shyness. What they do is they come and set up their instruments wherever there is space enough and they play as intimately as if they were among old friends. Was that all there was to it, then? Yes, and what is more: It is all you need. It is a sanctuary made from human closeness, the warmth of being together, sharing each others thoughts and emotions. After all, it is a mad, bad and dangerous world out there.

Then after touring and testing their songs for the last two years Without Gravity went into the studio and recorded their first album Tenderfoot. Listening to it will transport you to the place where it all started, the roots of music, of communicating with a song and words, the living room in the eye of the storm. Because, as it says in the Without Gravity song ‘Beautiful Son’, the hurt will find us anyway. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Without+Gravity">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.