The saga begins with the untimely demise of beer/noise/grind/drunken havoc-merchants SARCASM leaving drummer Gore Gert bandless and bored. Meanwhile, in a bordering pigtown, Mr. Francken, Cruel Dimi and a drummer called Lu decided to vent their love for hardcore and death metal in a little ditty called FRONTIER. When their vocalist left G.G. was aded to fill in and three days later after zero rehearsels, the first gigs were played. After the departure of Lu, G.G. took the stool (behind the drums, that is!) and FRONTIER was born. As a trio the first songs were assembled and dismembered. After a while an old acquintance came into the picture: the legendary Charly Vaseline (there’s a story behind the name, but you don’t want to know), former bassplayer of the local hardcore band FACE OF DENIAL. He took over the the bass from Mr. F. so that he could shift to second guitar. Of course C.V. just sucked at playing bass and he was soon put behind the drums so G.G. could pick up the vocal duties and yes, the result came close to a real band! Some sonic convulsions later and a change of name from Morbid Breath to Witness The End, the band made their live debute on august 16th in the year 2000 in Mol with AGATHOCLES. About 20 minutes later a legend was born! The gods of drunken debauchery had landed. Bow down to W.T.E. or die!!! More gigs followed and it came clear that a second guitarist would be a necessity to the sound of W.T.E. It was then that B.S. came into the picture, but... he refused!! After several months of begging, pleading and threatening physical violence he finally tried out and the world witnessed the second coming of the sonic noise messiah. The name of W.T.E. started to spread in the underground, so a crap live CD was released, the “Sick and gore at Uilenrock”earsore. Years went by and the sick ass crackpot crew have steadily solidified their sound and have played for vast crowds of metalheads as well as hardcore kids. A live 4-track demo was cut so get it and surrender to this rotten filth. Soon W.T.E. will come to torch your town! As piss rains down from the sky, the five whorsemen are comming to ruin your evening!!! So join W.T.E. and sail with them the seas of vomit, travel over lands of rotting flesh and fly through the bloodred skies. 

Gore Gert: Tourette Syndrome
Braindead Svekke: Bonesaw Armageddon
Cruel Dimi: Electric Poser Disposer
Mr. Francken: Panzer Schwanz
Charly Vaseline: Bestial Nuclear Crossfire <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Witness+The+End">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.