Wizards of Doom Bio: New Danish Doom masters: WIZARDS OF DOOM. In 1991 lead-vocalist Thomas A.G. Jensen started looking for people to start a death-metal band. He hooked up with bass-player Brian Hansen who was also looking for people for the same act. After a few months the band (at that time called "Asesino") was joined by a drummer and guitarist. In 1992 the drummer was replaced and guitarist Kim (KS) entered the band. In the following year a number of musicians entered and left the band. In 1993 the people of Asesino were Thomas A.G. Jensen (vocal), Brian Hansen (bass), Christian Brenner (guitar), Pouli Choir (drums), KS (guitar). The band played at a metal-competition (Judgment Day) in BarBue (Huset, Copenhagen) and ended up second out of eight bands. Shortly after the band split up and Thomas, Brian and KS found a new drummer, Jesper Saltoft. A month later KS left the band and guitarist Mikkel Andersen joined in. It would not be long after Mikkel joined the band that a keyboard player was found, his name Anders Ro Nielsen. At this time the name "Asesino" was changed to Saturnus. Now many years later, it's time to bring back the roots in a new age and form...Asesino it was, but now it's doom !!! In 2007 the band was working with material hoping for some live gigs and response. Shortly after, the band was booked localy in Copenhagen as support for bands like: Memfis(SE), Saturnus(DK), Mourning Beloved (IRE), Akoma(DK), End My Sorrow(DK) At the first show the Drummer Jesse Haff of Daylight Dies traveld from Raleigh, North Carolina (USA) to see the show and made a video clip that can be seen at the Wizards of Doom myspace page under videos. In 2008 the guys joined up and made a pure doom Demo and Played shortly after at Dutch Doom Days in Rotterdam Holland!!! In 2009 the band are working on new material and upcoming gigs. KEEP DOOMING!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/wizards+of+doom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.