There are various artists called "Woes":
1.) A British Pop Punk band. They have released a self-titled as well as two singles, as of September 2017.
 
2.) A Blackened Hardcore band from Copenhagen, Denmark. WOES represents a brand new take on the Copenhagen DIY Hardcore scene. https://woescph.bandcamp.com/

3.) A Japanese punk band with heavy metal leanings.
They released a one-sided, two track 7" flexi in 1987 called "Time Bomb".

4.) A raw Black Metal / D-beat / Sludge crossover band from Bradford, West Yorkshire, England. Formed 2011. WOES recorded an EP entitled "Valley of Desolation" which is due to be released in 2013.

5.) Woes is an emcee from California, formally of the group B-Boy Genre. Woes began hitting open mics and M.C. battles with his inventive freestyle almost a decade ago. In 1997, he helped form the group B-Boy Genre. In the five years the group was together they released a full length album, a cd single, and a 12 inch vinyl. They opened up for some of the best, including the Roots, J-Live, Aceyalone, Abstract Tribe Unique, Bus Driver, Phoenix Orion, Digital Underground, and Hieroglyphics. Despite their success, B-Boy Genre broke up before they could release a second full-length album. After B-Boy Genre disbanded, Woes decided to continue his career as a solo artist. In 2000/01 Woes was a resident at Koncrete Jungle, the L.A. based Drum and Bass/Hip Hop club, which showcased some of Los Angeless most respected artists. Woes performed once a week, along with accredited artists like Mikah 9 and Bus Driver. Koncrete Jungle is also where he met Producer/Promoter Daddy Kev, Graff artist Mear One, and R.A.W, whom he would later collaborate with on making his album Verbal Building. One track off Verbal Building, Walkman Child, is sure to speak to many long-time Hip Hop heads that remember the days when it was all about the mixtape. "Walkman Child is inspired by my recollection of the golden age of hip hop. I have been a hip hop head since its conception. I witnessed the innocence and innovation that occurred in the late 80s and early 90s, and it inspired this song. I had a feeling that the other cats of my generation would recall with fond memories the days of rolling around with a walkman, searching for the next mixtape, and actually going to shows to find that ridiculous underground talent". As a solo artist, Woes has opened up for Medusa and Lyrics Born. At the House of Blues in New Orleans, he performed with the Toledo Show, which was opened up by Flogging Molly. Woes sat in with The Ataris on the Warped Tour, where he freestyled in front of 20,000 people at the Gorge in Washington. Currently, he is geared up to hit the stage with his new material. Verbal Building had the help of producers Maintain, R.A.W., and Sir Kado. Mear One was on board to do the Art Direction. Independently produced and distributed,
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Woes">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.