Wolfingar born between 2007 and 2008 from an idea of the drummer Andrea Aquino (aka Thorstein Mørke Hämärien) and Guido Giraldi (aka Siegrif Ulfjord Magnusson), vocals.
The idea born officially in Finland in the same year where Andrea and Guido created the first band name “Folkvangar”.
Later joined the band the guitarist Alessio Piazza (alias Ingvarr Hallbjǫrn Ólafsson) and the bass player Alfredo Cerofolini (alias Windir).
Windir left the band, in his place joined Massimiliano Innocenti (alias Thorgrim Veesas).
The musical influences were more directed at the mold purely Death Metal with issues Nordic (Viking Metal) and typical sound of Irish folklore, the voice of Guido ranged from clean melodic parts and scratched parts in growl and scream. At that time, was born the first arrangement of "Ragnarok" and "Starry Way To The Open Sea".
In 2009 joined at the keyboard Guido Borgheresi , to increase the sound folk and give body to pieces, and Ferdinando Valsecchi as a bass player. Massimiliano take the place as the lead guitar.
In March 2010, the clarinetist David enters the band and after the performance at the contest "Suoni nella notte" in Cerreto Guidi also enters the Valeria Gaspar violinist with whom they will perform later in the contest of the Maggio Musicale Fiorentino winning the audience award.
In the autumn of the same year the guitarist Alessio and the singer Guido permanently leaves the band due to musical differences.
In December of that year, instead of Guido, joined the voice Chiara Tesi (Alias Runkah Snorkraka), a female voice so that reinterprets songs (now four officers) re-adapting to his voice.
Chiara, however, is not limited to singing clean, inserts, in turn, varied vocals growl to scream and scream spoken.
Left the band in the meantime, the clarinetist David. 
Write two more pieces, with just more dynamic "bad" and riff with more variables than previous rides repetitive and rhythmic guitar, these are "The Rainstorm Ride" and "Black Horde".
Continue with concerts in spring / summer.
In June 2011, leaving the group the keyboardist Guido, and bassist Ferdinando, who founded later the "Northern Mass".
Enters as bassist Francesco Sieni (aka Hodr) and, on lead guitar, Diego Gavazzi.
Diego will greatly help in the search of the band by inserting the orchestrations, the first thing never worked unless the keypad.
With the formation complete the Wolfingar continue their series of live playing then in the months of January and April with groups such as Subhuman and Folkstone.
From June 2012, wolfingar begin to produce the self-produced EP "Ragnarok" 6 tracks, recording only voice in the studio.
This will keep them still for the next few months and in November 2012 the guitarist Diego Gavazzi leave the band to move to another country.
Then get ready to conclude the final arrangements and December 21, 2012 officially released their first EP "Ragnarok"
The work is a "juxtaposition" between the past and the present and future of the band.
We find the old songs, even if adapted, mold epic alongside totally different arrangements.
The band is then finding its own musical imprint and when defining their genre "Pagan Metal", a unique gathering certain issues to a certain type of music, all seasoned by the inevitable Folk genre. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolfingar">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.