The Hellenic Heavy-Power Metal band of WOLFCRY was formed in September 1992 by Andreas "The Wizard" as the follow up of the band VANGUARD which had to change name because of legal terms. 

In November 1992 the band entered the "Molon Lave" studio to record the track "Angelsign" for a local compilation which unfortunately was never released. Due to several personal problems and line up changes the band went through a non-creative period of almost 4 years! 

In August 1996, Andreas "The Wizard" decided to renew and reform the band to record the debut demo called "The Ivory Tower". Their participation in the compilation CD of the major metal magazine "Metal Invader" increased the popularity of the band resulting in their participation in the Metal compilation CD "Pandora's Metal Box" with two tracks from their debut demo in 1998. One year later they entered the studio to record the "Promo 1999" CD with two tracks of their freshly composed material. 

After a couple of years of intense rehearsing and song writing, they recorded their first album called "Power Within". The album released from the local label Black Lotus on November of 2001 and it received very good reviews from all over the world. 

In December of 2002 the band with the same line-up entered the studio once again, this time for the recording of their second album entitled "Nightbreed" which was also released from Black Lotus Records in June 2003 and made the band one of the most successful ones in Hellas, in their music genre. At the same time (2003) two new members joined the band John B. on the second guitar and Nick "Peper" Zanninello on the keyboards. 

With the solid older line up, along with the two new members the band entered the studio in the summer in order to record its third full length album entitled "WARFAIR". In October of 2005 WARFAIR was released by Black Lotus Records. 

In the beginning of 2007 John B., Simos Kaggelaris and Spiros Triantafillou left the band and they were replaced by Elias Koskoris (guitars) and Nikos Hortis (bass). 

In October of 2008 WOLFCRY started recording their fourth full length album “Glorious” which was mastered at the famous “Jailhouse Studio” by Tommy Hansen (HELLOWEEN, PRETTY MAIDS and many more). It was released in June of 2010 from PAINKILLER RECORDS (a division of APOLLON RECORDS).

After the end of these recordings Nick "Peper" Zanninello has left the band.
The story goes on...

official sites:
http://www.wolfcrymusic.com
Wolfcry on YouTube
Wolfcry on facebook
Wolfcry on myspace
Wolfcry on twitter <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolfcry">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.