WOLF SPIDER is a Polish thrash metal band that started in Poznań in 1985. The name of the band was taken from the Atlas of Desert Animals and it means a desert spider, which does not produce nets, but attacks like a wolf instead.
 
During the first three years of existence, the band used the Polish name: Wilczy Pająk.
 
The original line-up consisted of Leszek Szpigiel (vocals), Piotr Mańkowski and Maciej Matuszak (guitars), Mariusz Przybylski (bass) and Tomasz Goehs (drums). They recorded two full-length materials: „Wilczy Pająk” (finished in 1987, released in 1989 by Klub Płytowy „Razem”) and „Barwy Zła” (finished in 1988, never released).
 
Leszek Szpigiel left the band and Poland as well in 1989. He was succeeded by Tomek Zwierzchowski (ex-Slavoy, he died in 2009). In this line –up WOLF SPIDER recorded the English version of „Barwy Zła”: „Hue Of Evil”. The material was finally released in 1991 by Polskie Nagrania.
 
Shortly after the session, Mariusz Przybylski left the band. Maciej Matuszak switched to bass, and WOLF SPIDER found a new guitarist in Dariusz „Popcorn” Popowicz (ex-Slavoy, later Acid Drinkers, Armia, Gomor). Another change was at hand. Jacek Piotrowski (ex-Squire) replaced Zwierzchowski. With the line-up finally stable, WOLF SPIDER recorded another two materials, „Kingdom Of Paranoia” (1990) and „Drifting In The Sullen Sea”. Both were internationally released by Music For Nations without delays and were critically applauded.
 
WOLF SPIDER performed at Metalmania in 1986, 87, 88 and 90, Rock Opole in 1988, Metal Battle 1988, FMR Jarocin (in 1987 they were one of the three laureates). They went abroad to Czechoslovakia and Hungary, but there were many limitations that prevented them from touring Western Europe.
 
One can find WOLF SPIDER songs on the samplers: Metalmania’87, Metalmania’88, Jarocin’88, Metal Shock, Metal Invasion, Speed Kills 5.
 
The last memorbale show of WOLF SPIDER took place in their hometown of Poznan, when they supported Deep Purple. The lack of commercial success forced the group to dissolve in 1991.
 
In March 2011 WOLF SPIDER returned. There have been many disturbances in the Force, but finally in August the line-up was full, consisting of Jacek Piotrowski (vocals), Piotr Mańkowski (guitar), Maciej Matuszak (guitar), Mariusz Przybylski (bass) and Beata Polak (drums, ex-Armia, 2Tm2,3, Syndicate). The comeback show took place in February 2012 in Poznan’s Blue Note Club. There is more to come! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolf+Spider">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.