Wolfgang Haffner was born in Wunsiedel/Germany in 1965. He started playing drums and piano at the age of six. He began his career as a professional musician in the German French Jazz Ensemble, conducted by German Jazz legend Albert Mangelsdorff. The Band played Festivals including the Paris Jazzfestival and the Jazzfest Berlin. Haffner later became the drummer in Klaus Doldingers "Passport", with whom he played for 11 years, touring Europe and Southafrica. From 1994 to 1995 he was the drummer in the Band of one of the greatest female singers of all times, Chaka Khan. 1994 he joined the US Fusion Superband METRO with Chuck Loeb, Mitch Forman and Anthony Jackson. In 1997 Haffner and his long-time colleague Roberto Di Gioia started their succesful Group "Zappelbude". 

Haffner worked with many great Jazz Artists including Pat Metheny, Michael & Randy Brecker, Larry Carlton, Bill Evans, Earl Klugh,Woody Shaw, Roy Hargrove, Johnny Griffin, CassandraWilson, Joe Pass, Bob James, Joe Lovano, Clark Terry, Pat Martino, Eddie Daniels, Mc Coy Tyner, Art Farmer, Pee Wee Ellis, Esbjoern Svensson, Joe Sample, Fred Wesley, Roy Ayers, Hiram Bullock, Will Lee, Robben Ford... ), also with artists and Bands like Jan Garbarek, Michael Franks, "Die Fantastischen Vier", No Angels, Stefan Raab Helge Schneider, Xavier Naidoo, Sasha, Wolfgang Niedecken, Konstantin Wecker, DePhazz, Lalo Schifrin, NDR Big Band Hamburg and the WDR Big Band Cologne.

Haffner has played Festivals around the world, such as Montreux, Paris, Chicago, North Sea Jazzfestival, Los Angeles, Berlin, Vienna, San Diego, Geneva, Amsterdam, Nice, Stockholm, Madrid, Oslo, Zurich, London. He toured more than 50 countries (Argentinia, Brasil, Venezuela, Nicaragua, Chile, Uruquay, Mexico, Peru, Bolivia Columbia, Portugal Southafrica, USA, India, Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Italy, Jordan, Poland, Hungary, Thailand, England, Spain, Japan, Finland, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Latvia, Russia, China...) 

In 2002 Haffner formed the Wolfgang Haffner Band which toured Europe. When not performing with his own Band he plays with the Nils Landgren Funk Unit of sweden. Haffner has played on about 350 Recordings, including 11 albums under his own name. In spring 2004 he produced the new album of the iclandic supergroup "Mezzoforte". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolfgang+Haffner">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.