Wolfenhords is a Black Metal band from Croatia (Zagreb), formed in 2005 by The Nobll. After being active in many Croatian underground Death/Thrash Metal bands and perfecting his playing skills he decided to do what he always wanted - play and record Black Metal music. He was firstly inspired by bands like Burzum, Graveland, Absurd and Aryan Terrorism. The Nobll started to record songs under various project names, he made tens of them but didn’t publish those anywhere as they were to amateurish and raw, not kind of music that he imagined. With practice and dedication his playing became more mature, and two years later he had first demo album recorded - the first he thought was good enough to be presented to public, so it became available in the underground Black Metal circle. In that time The Nobll decided that project name would stay Wolfenhords - he choose that name as it presents everything he stands for, a horde of white wolves, even though some may think that hords is a grammatical error it is not but a tribute to German people (as it is German word). Homo homini lupus - wolf is a metaphor for aggressive beings, and Hitler also used pseudonym Wolf in several occasions. In The Nobll’s opinion he started one horde of wolves called NSDAP that almost ruled the entire world. And the name of the album was “Wolves of the New Beginning” - and it presents a new beginning after countless demos and first serious work along with the new beginning of NS belief that Wolfenhords is presenting there. That album can be described as Raw Black Metal with allusions to NS and with innovative riffs and compositions. Production was not so good as it was recorded in pretty bad conditions. The music is similar to that of Satanic Warmaster, Evil, Moonblood… On the first album Wolfenhords is using keyboards in more “ambient” way (influenced by "Hvis Lyset Tar Oss" and Wagner’s music), the voice is harsh like that of early Burzum recordings and it has similar insanity and agonizing vibe. Lyrically it was about darkness, forests, anti-Christianity as well as Aryan pride. The cover also had a forest and a interesting emblem that would later in different version appear as Wolfenhords logo as it is today. The logo in that time was just a usual font that fit well to projects imagery. Even though very few people had opportunity to hear that recording, one of them was a member of Polish label, Terror Cult Productions who approached the band as he was especially interested to release that album as first studio album of the band. The Nobll firstly thought that it should remain demo recording and stay self-released in few copies as it already were, but he changed his mind and accepted the labels offer to released it in very limited edition as public interest in project grew in that time. The album received fairly good feedback from people in those circles and it was an encouragement to continue the same way. The Nobll has several ideas that he didn’t put on first album so he started recording second immediately after the first one. It was recorded and it bears that title “Pathway to Lunar Utopia”, as it was just a mere continuation of “Wolves…” a pathway to better releases along with more mature themes and ideology. It was released by same label in few hundred copies. Major difference between the two was production that was much better that the production on the first album, lyrically Wolfenhords continued to explore the same themes, and the focus on eternity was brought to a new level. The cover art also consisted of forest, while it had the first serious logo that Wolfenhords used (similar to the one that Wolfenhords is using today). That album is more organized then the first one and it is more “in control” sounding. The feedback was also good but Wolfenhords decided to do something much better than those previous recordings. After two studio albums The Nobll decided to find session members so band could perform on stage. He was supposed to play bass & vocals, while the others would handle drums and guitars. Several rehearsals were held but The Nobll was not satisfied with the results so he dropped the idea with decision that Wolfenhords will stay studio band from now on. In 2009., after two years of hard work and dedication The Nobll presents “White Power for White People Fight”, it was an epic album, with clear production, more melodic compositions, clean & screaming vocals mixed together, better riffs, epic style of playing in the vein of Graveland, experimenting with Trash and even Folk Metal. The biggest difference were lyrics, that were now 100% NS oriented and about spiritual, esoteric and eternal part of human nature, along with paganism (which was not so often used in Wolfenhords music), ariosophy, cosmos, solar & astral, Slavic mythology and white power. The great deal of inspiration were beliefs of Indo-Aryan religions. The bands focus was now more similar to the one of BlazeBirth Hall, Kataxu, Gontyna Kry, Fanisk… Instead of the one of Satanic Warmaster and others. Also for the first time some of the lyrics were in Croatian (especially those connected with Slavic paganism, as it was more appropriate to have those songs singed in native language). The main Wolfenhords label has some problems to release it, as it was too controversial (not only the lyrics were about NS but the cover also consisted of picture of The Nobll holding Wehrmacht flag). In order to be released the cover was changed into the image that shows ancient druid having a spiritual speech in the dungeon and passing the knowledge to his people and followers while he is watched from the skies by keepers of universal order (as he is just fulfilling their will). The picture fits greatly the whole concept of the album. The cover also was the first to present new and final Wolfenhords logo (that remained to this day). As TCP couldn’t release the album The Nobll spread the word that he was searching for another, and he was contacted by Azermedoth Records. They were supposed to release it but again, because of problems they also had to abandon that project. The Nobll then decided to self-release it. In the time it was only available as limited CD-R and as downloadable file. Nonetheless the album achieved great success and more and more people started to get familiar with Wolfenhords and its music and ideology. The Nobll paused his work for few months, and in the meantime he planned to do Experimental Blackened Folk Metal album with few songs. He and his good Ukrainian friends Чиста Криниця (young musicians that play that sort of music). The themes were supposed to be Slavic nationalism along with Social problems caused by Christianity and ZOG in our Slavic lands (the other theme is also a sorrow caused by lost national identity). Both bands had very similar music and lyrics on that split CD but it was never officially released. It was supposed to be released by German label Blasphemous Terror Records, with titles and songs in booklet translated to German. It would be a censored version of album, but the project was canceled because of many problems so it is now available only as official-bootleg (that leaked, but you must know that it is an unfinished version of album). After some time The Nobll started working on fourth album of Wolfenhords. It is supposed to be called “The truth shall set you free” and will consist of new and better music that can be described as Experimental Black/Thrash Metal. The themes will be spirituality and presenting of the new step to final shape of human existence. It will be finished during the end of 2011.

Discography:
1. Wolves of the New Beginning (2007)
2. Pathway to Lunar Utopia (2007)
3. White Power for White People Fight (2009)
4. Slavonic Alliance (2009) - Split Album with Чиста Криниця
5. The Truth Shall Set you Free (2011) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolfenhords">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.