"WDR Computerclub" - 
The return of Wolfgang ² Three years after the end of the legendary “WDR computer club” have the two TV-moderators at that time Wolfgang Back and Wolfgang Rudolph a Podcast variant of the transmission to create. Without pictures - however with the old charm.
More long there were than 20 years on the public television of Germany an enclave for Computerfreaks, soldering iron oscillators and technique friends: The “WDR the constantly changing world of the technology explained computer club” since 1983 - and already before among other things names -. VTX (the interactive videotext of the post office), the era of the home computers, the ascent PC and finally Internet - the two moderators Wolfgang bake and Wolfgang Rudolph always were in rusikal charming way at the pulse of the time. In the Studio much was told, shown some and tinkered also tidy, taken apart and soldered together. And famous inventors such as Konrad Zuse looked also times in the Studio past.
The transmission ran in different third programs and had a loyale Gefolgschaft. In March 2003 however the responsible persons pulled the plug with the West German broadcast, and despite a proclamation in the fan basis and different on-line Petitionen for rescue computer club a bit did not remain for the transmission of the WDR. "Remaining keep a bit" - one the numerous Bonmots and Running Gags of the moderators. It was also Nerd humor like this, which constituted the charm of the club.

“Radiating” is called now “Download”
Now both wolf course the transmission is - without broadcasting corporation in the back. Simply “computer club 2” is called the format, it is not radiated, but spreads over Internet as Podcast. “Radiating - the word I must cure”, am written the Fernsehmann retired in the meantime bake on its homepage. Nowadays there is the first expenditure to the Download, as Streaming or as RSS feed, in each case on the homepage of Back and Rudolph. According to first estimations of the two maker the premiere had reached approximately 50,000 listeners after the first day. Listener, mind you, not viewer. Wolfgang & Wolfgang produce an halfhour free audio transmission. Each week is to give it new expenditure. 
Source: Stern.de <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolfgang+Back+und+Wolfgang+Rudolph">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.