Alpha Wolves of the Heavy Metal project WOLFPAKK are the full blooded musicians Michael Voss (ex-Casanova, Mad Max) and Mark Sweeney (ex-Crystal Ball).

Voss and Sweeney have known each other for a long time, always having in mind and discussion to start a project together one day. Since Michael Voss was producer for Mark Sweeney's 2nd solo album in 2009, it has finally happened that the two found time for this collaboration. Still during these recordings the two rockers made plans for a Metal project, one of extraordinary kind: the best musicians of the Hard Rock & Metal genre should participate, to create a high class album under the aegis of the two leaders Voss and Sweeney. The goal was not only to have the guest musicians on the album but also to feature their respective characteristics and strengths. Thanks to Michael Voss' extensive network gathered over the years as a producer, within very short time 30 musicians from all over the world joined the project.

All 11 songs including lyrics have been written by Voss/Sweeney. Vocal parts have been shared between the two, as well as production and mixing. And with these guests the WOLFPAKK album was finally realized:

Vocals: Paul Di'Anno (ex-Iron Maiden), Tony Martin (ex-Black Sabbath), Jeff Scott Soto (ex-Yngwie Malmsteen, Talisman), Rob Rock (Impellitteri), Mark Boals (ex-Yngwie Malmsteen), Tim Ripper Owens (ex-Judas Priest, ex-Iced Earth), Paul Shortino (ex-Quiet Riot), Mark Fox (ex-Shakra), Michaela Schober (Tanz der Vampire), Jean-Marc Viller, Pearl and Molly Duncan.

Bass: Tony Franklin (ex-Blue Murder, Robert Plant), Mat Sinner (Primal Fear), Matthias Rethmann (ex-LeeZ, Silver), Nils Middelhauve (Xandria), Neil Murray (Whitesnake), Barend Courbois (Vengeance).

Guitars: Jgor Gianola (U.D.O.), Andy Midgeley (Power Quest), Ira Black (Ex-Vicious Rumors, Lizzy Borden), Torsten Koehne (Edens Curse), Doc Heyne (Biss), Tommy Denander (Dan Reed, Paul Stanley), Nadja Kossinskaja (Peter Maffay), Freddy Scherer (Gotthard), Olaf Lenk (At Vance), George Solonos (Tommy Lee) .

Keys: Alessandro Delveccio (Glenn Hughes, Ian Paice), Ferdy Doernberg (Axel Rudi Pell, Rough Silk).

Drums: Gereon Homann (Eat the Gun). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolfpakk">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.