Wolves Of War is the name that was chosen by KRIGULV for the musical continuation of Vitam Eternam (circa 1994), but with a different overall concept. Krigulv, a.k.a. John Prosser (previously a.k.a. Ashlar), wrote all of the music for Vitam Eternam and was also in various other bands in the not so distant past. The name Wolves Of War was officially used starting in 2006 when the first full line up was temporarily established, yet it would be appropriate to apply it to all of the music that Krigulv has wrote/recorded himself since approximately 1998 following the unofficial breakup of Vitam Eternam. He eventually recorded a few instrumental tracks to use as a preliminary demo/promo and to facilitate the search for a full line up. As previously alluded to, no permanent full line up has yet been established. 


Although Krigulv has experienced various delays, setbacks, and some extremely serious physical injuries during the last few years, Wolves Of War is officially back on track. Krigulv recorded two new complete tracks in Spring of 2010 to serve the same purpose as the previous tracks, yet have also been released as singles and an EP. 


The aural art of Wolves Of War is firmly based in the roots of Vitam Eternam, but is both progressive and regressive when compared to its varied influences. It is progressive in certain obvious characteristics and that it is not strictly bound by any conventional stylistic trappings. It is regressive in the sense that will always have strong ties to its long established roots and continue to utilize minimalist elements as needed in order to contrast the more progressive ones. It also will never be fully melodic, nor will it be fully dissonant. It will always remain in a perpetual flux between extremes. It will continue to remain isolated, insulated, and fully independent of trends, new sub-genres, and new so-called accepted industry standards. It is madness interpreted and presented by a madman. It is also the incarnation of various non-music-related stimuli being channeled through Krigulv as a voluntary medium. It is simply an entity in and of itself that required name. 
It is Wolves Of War. 
All music written, composed, and performed exclusively by KRIGULV. 
All music, lyrics and logos © Wolves Of War 1998-2010. 
All Rights Reserved 


Band Members KRIGULV - Guitars, Bass, Drums, Synth, Vocals 

Former live members:
Brian Dingeman who was in Dispensing of False Halos on live bass guitar.
H Murder of Catheter & Capitalist Casualties on live drums.
Sam of Black Market Fetus on live drums. 

Influences:
 Bathory
Celtic Frost
Morbid Angel
Mercyful Fate
King Diamond
Emperor
Dissection
Mayhem
Destruction
Sodom
Slayer
Darkthrone
Satyricon
Wongraven
Storm
Enslaved
Hellhammer
Can
Immortal
The Sisters Of Mercy
Burzum
Black Widow
Thorns
Carcass
Bauhaus
Unanimated
T.S.O.L.
Death
Joy Division
Angel Witch
Kraftwerk
Ulver
Aghast
Coven
Arcturus
Gorgoroth
Dead Can Dance
Neptune Towers
Big Black
Isengard
Motörhead
King Crimson
Ved Buens Ende

Sounds Like: A progressive/regressive continuation of Vitam Eternam (musically, but not conceptionally) that was conceived in 1994. 
Record Label: unsigned 
Type of Label: Indie

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/wolvesofwar#ixzz12Y4CVBfT




 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolves+of+War">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.