1)German death industrial/power electronics project from Gerd Zaunig of Predominance and Virologic.
2) Swedish progressive metal band
3) Norwegian rapper
4) Australian rapper
5) Polish heavy/stoner metal
6) Long Island hardcore 

1) German heavy electronics project of Gerd Zaunig. Active between 1992 and 1995. Many self-released cassettes and a CD, in addition to the Chapter cassette on the Loki Foundation label. 

2) The Swedish Progressive Metal band. There was a dose of grunting and death-metalish moments on The Window Purpose, but Cold Light Of Monday is quite different: musically more complex, overall less brutal, more emphasis on beautiful melodic lines. 

The most salient aspect of Wolverine's music would be their dynamic variety. The song "His Cold Touch Pt I" from the Window Purpose album is one steady, 9 minutes long increase in intensity: from quiet acoustic ballad to all-out grunting death-metal. This sensibility for the intensity in their music has allowed Wolverine to make both beautiful, experimental, almost ambient-like pieces as well as truly energetic metal songs. 

3) The Norwegian rapper from Groruddalen in Oslo. He started rapping early in the 90-ties. The album Hva skjer'a dog? from 2008 is produced by Jester. Other artist that contribues are Apollo, Simon Divine, Andyboy and of course Jester.
In 2010 the album Utouchelig, followed up by his newest album that came in 2011 called Neste Fix. That you can download for free.

4) Scott Kent, also known as rapper Wolverine, adopted the persona of the famous Marvel comic creation, full of rage and the unbreakable metal adamantium, long before Hugh Jackman brought the character to movie screens. And while Jackman honed his craft at the prestigious Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts, Kent also spent years honing his in Perth, except he did it in cyphers, studios and live shows around the city. With the nationwide release of his 3rd album, The Summertime Vibe, players nationwide are soon going to need adamantium speakers.

Any notions that Wolverine is just another rapper who has thrown together an album can be quickly discarded; his new release is being distributed through Australia’s premier hip hop distribution label Shogun, and features the breathtaking vocals of Porsah Laine on the single "Give it up". 
He has also performed at some of Australia's premier live venues, and his intense live show has seen him share the stage with acts including Blackalicious, Method Man, Redman, Gza, Muggs, Foreign Legion, Brad Strut, Art of War, Downsyde, Hospice Crew, Bliss and Eso, Bias B, The Funkoars and SBX.

It was in 1994 that Wolverine first picked up the microphone, inspired by the likes of B.I.G, Wu Tang, NWA, Geto Boys and Public Enemy. 
Wolverine established himself as a well respected member of the hip hop scene, and this can be seen in the calibre of his collaborations including Downsyde, Optamus, Billy Bunks, Porsah Laine, Trials, Dazastah, Hunter, Clandestien and many others.

He has received Triple J airplay and a host of other airplay from numerous radio shows around Australia.

It’s been a long road, but Wolverine is about to be unleashed into the national spotlight.


5)  Polish heavy/stoner metal. Band founded by Nergal (Behemoth), Piotr Weltrowski (December's Fire, Hefeystos) and 2 Helldorado members. They've recorded promo called "Million Hells" (2000) so far. It includes 3 songs:
"Million hells" 
"Man or Beast"
"War with Christ" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wolverine">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.