There is at least 6 Groups called "Wonderland".

1) An all Girl Irish Group managed by Kian Egan and Louis Walsh.  
They were formed through the auditions held by Louis Walsh, a well-known Irish manager of pop boy groups and Kian Egan, a member of the record-breaking group Westlife.  They were looking for five girls between ages 15–25. The audition was held in Dublin, Ireland, July 2008. An estimated 7000 girls auditioned at that event.

In September 2008, the news reported the girls that have passed the auditions, they were Albert, Condon, Duran, Smith and Leanne Moore who was first reported to be included but was replaced by Learmont instead. Later, they are signed to Mercury Records, a sub-unit of Universal Music in UK.
According to Songfacts, Jodie Albert is also an actress who is probably best known for playing Debbie Dean in the British soap opera Hollyoaks, on Channel 4 from 2002 to 2004. She is married to Kian Egan.

2) Swedish punkband from Örebro. Formed in 2004. Released their debut album "On The Barricade" on Talking Muisc in april 2008. Really catchy punk rock in the style of bands like Bad Religion, Sator and Rancid. See and listen at: www.myspace.com/wonderlandsite

3) Italian Power Metal band formed in 1997. Their albums "Somewhere In My Eyes" (EP, 1999), "Wonderland" (Full-length, 2001), "Eternally" (EP, 2003) and "Follow Me" (Full-Length, 2004) were released under the Underground Symphony label. On their first release, the band did a cover version of Warlord's "Lost And Lonely Days".

4) Wonderland from Oxford, England. Active during the 1990s. Fronted by female vocalist Leigh Whitcher. 2018 they got back together and wrote new songs. https://www.wonderlandband.co.uk

5). Wonderland we're a Dutch happy Hardcore group of the 90's. There biggest hit  was 'Be on a star'.

6) The German Group Wonderland was founded 1968 by Achim Reichel, in
former times member of "THe Rattles".
Producer was James Last, the other members have been Reinhard Tarrach, Les Humphries, Frank Dostal and Helmut Franke.
Their Hitsingle Moscow reached No 15 in the German Charts
In 1971 the group divided

7) A portguese band: Vasco Boucinha (lead vocals/guitar), Francisco Sousa ( drums), Pedro Monteiro (bass), Paulo Pereira (keyboards/back vocals) and Luís Martins (guitar.) 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wonderland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.