Ever get the feeling that reality is a bad joke and human existence is the punchline? So do we.

Hailing from various parts of the San Francisco Bay Area, the members of Wonderland Syndrome have come together to shatter your perception of life, the universe, and everything. The band's unique sound and style draw influence from every corner of the metal spectrum and well beyond. With a mind-bending mix of heaviness and experimentalism, Wonderland Syndrome is continuing to catch ears and earn fans throughout the Northern California music community and beyond. The band's one-of-a-kind sound only serves to highlight their intense live performances, often involving bizzare stage antics and always high energy and incredible stage presence. Come see Wonderland Syndrome live and you won't regret it.

Wonderland Syndrome's second studio release, the Flake EP, showcases a darker, more aggressive side of the fun-loving experimental metal band, while reinforcing Wonderland Syndrome's reputation as a band that loves to experiment with their sound and style. The 6 tracks range wildly in style and mood, even within each song. The band cycles unexpectedly from slower, progressive metal to the trademark synth-bass funk sound that marked parts of the band's debut EP, to complete heavy metal chaos, to well outside of the spectrum of conventional metal. Now Wonderland Syndrome has teamed up with fellow SF Bay Area metal band Vengince. The Flake EP has been released both as a stand-alone digital EP, and as half of the Distilled Entertainment Death Matches 4 Split Album, a showcase of these two fixtures of the Northern California metal scene.

Wonderland Syndrome has been in existence since August of 2009, and the band's roots extend back several years to teenage garage days and extensive experience in the hardened bay area thrash scene. Over time the band members grew tired of the monotony that comes with typical metal and decided to expand their minds and their horizons, and Wonderland Syndrome was born. The Flake EP/Distilled Entertainment Death Matches 4 Split, as well as Wonderland Syndrome's debut eponymous EP, are available now worldwide at www.wonderlandsyndrome.net <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wonderland+Syndrome">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.