Woods of Ypres was a blackened doom metal band from Ontario, Canada, formed in 2002 by David Gold, Aaron Palmer and Brian McManus. They released five albums, each somewhat differing in style, before the death of founding member David Gold. According to the official website, Woods of Ypres can be defined as, "...atmospheric doom-laden Great-White-North flavored black metal."

In 2002, the demo Woods I: Against the Seasons, Cold Winter Songs from the Dead Summer Heat was released on Krankenhaus Records. Later in 2003, David Gold moved to Toronto to begin working on a full-length album and, by 2004, the band's first full-length album, Woods II: Pursuit of the Sun & Allure of the Earth was also released on Krankenhaus Records. Woods III: Deepest Roots & Darkest Blues was released in 2007, again on the Krankenhaus label. Woods IV: The Green Album, was released in November, 2009 on Practical Art Records. This is the longest album by Woods of Ypres, with 16 tracks total.

In 2010, it was rumored that Woods of Ypres would split up, because front man David Gold was moving to Kuwait. Woods of Ypres would record and release their fifth record, Woods 5: Grey Skies and Electric Light, and that would be the end for Woods of Ypres. In October, 2010 David Gold stated that Woods of Ypres did not quit. It never happened. In the same statement, David Gold announced that Woods of Ypres signed a contract with Earache Records. In 2011, Earache Records re-released all 4 previous albums, as well as the single Home, which contained the tracks "Falling Apart" and "You Where the Light."

On December 23, 2011 it was announced that founder David Gold died as a result of a car accident. In the beginning of 2012, Earache Records officially released the fifth and final Woods of Ypres album, Woods 5: Grey Skies & Electric Light.

Final line-up:
-----
David Gold - Guitars, Vocals
Joel Violette - Lead Guitar
Shane Madden - Bass
Evan Madden - Drums


Other past members:
-----
Bryan Belleau - Lead Guitar
Brian McManus - Guitar, Vocals
Aaron Palmer - Bass, Vocals
Jessica Rose - Keyboards
Dan Hulse - Bass, Guitar, Vocals

Discography
-----
Against the Seasons: Cold Winter Songs From the Dead Summer Heat
Pursuit of the Sun & Allure of the Earth 
Woods III: Deepest Roots and Darkest Blues
Independent Nature 2002-2007
Allure of the Earth single
Woods 4: The GREEN Album
Home single
Woods 5: Grey Skies & Electric Light <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Woods+of+Ypres">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.