Woodland refers to at least four artists. One is a folk/faerie band from Eugene, Oregon; one is the Akron, Ohio minimalist ambient project of Joe Minadeo (aka Patternbased); one is a German metal band; and one is a delta blues band from Trondheim, Norway.

~~~

Emerging from the misty old-growth forests of America's Pacific northwest, the folk/faerie Woodland is a mythic fusion ensemble featuring the songcraft of guitarist Emilio Miller-Lopez and singer/harpist Kelly Miller-Lopez. For more than nine years, Woodland has been enchanting audiences throughout the US and Europe with an ornate blend of original and traditional melodies woven with meaningful bardic poetry. The band's music features a variety of folk and electric instrumentation, combining ambient and acoustic, with the signature improvisational energy of an authentic west coast festival jam band. Woodland produces large- scale themed events which are immersive concert experiences featuring vibrant lightshows, theatrical dance performances and live musical rituals led by their seasonal poetic invocations.

The band features an amazing lineup of musicians, and live Woodland often includes collaborations with other mythic musical artists from around the world. The current Woodland live musical lineup includes:

Kelly Miller-Lopez: Vocals, Harp, Flutes, Percussion
Emilio Miller-Lopez: Vocals, Electric Guitar, Acoustic Guitar
Kimmy Smith: Violin, Harmony Vocals
Donald Brodsky: Bass, Didjeridu
Ken Sokolov: Drum Kit, Tabla, Dumbek, Djembe
Markus Johnson: Percussion, Electronica

For eight years Woodland has been working with Imaginosis and the UK artists Brian and Wendy Froud, creating live concert events where mythic music and art find a crossroads. The band has performed and headlined at events including The Labyrinth Masquerade in Los Angeles, An Evening in Elfland in Glastonbury UK, Earthdance near San Francisco, The Witches Ball in London, The Oregon Country Fair, The Fairy Ball in Cornwall, England, The Good Faeries / Bad Faeries Masquerades on both coasts, FaerieCon in Philadelphia and the Faerieworlds festivals in Sedona, Santa Fe, Los Angeles and Oregon.

Woodland has shared main stage at events featuring world-renowned artists including Faun, Qntal, Solas, Estampie, Johnny Cunningham, Priscilla Hernandez, Karan Casey, Susan McKeown, Trillian Green, Rasputina, Brother, Casey Neill, Phil Cunningham, Kevin Burke, John Renbourn and more. Woodland's festivals, concerts and faerie masquerades often coincide with seasonal celebrations such as solstices, equinoxes, cross-quarters and full moons, adding to the intention and experience of the groups live music.

 ~~~

The German band Woodland is a four-piece metal band from ]Lübeck, Germany, formed in 2004. After recording two demos - Morgens (2004) and Dämmerung (Demo) - the band announced to have found their style of music and started recording their debut album - Dreamality. The bend cites folk, death and black and doom metal, as well as progressive rock genres as their primary influences.
Band members
Koop (Vocals, Guitar)
Schmidt (Vocals, Bass)
Ole (Guitar)
Flo(Drums)

~~~

Minadeo's ambient Woodland is along the lines of Music for Airports' era Eno, Tim Hecker, Goldmund/Helios and similar artists. Woodland is music made generally to sleep or relax to. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Woodland">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.