Words of Farewell is a progressive/melodic death metal band from Münster/Ruhr, Germany formed in early 2007.

After four months of rehearsing, the 7 track EP 'Ashes of the Coming Dawn ' was recorded at Boombox Studios in Lünen and published in a quantity of 500 units.

In autumn 2008 the band recorded the 4 track CD 'From Now On...' for promotional purposes at Total Recall Studios in Herten. It was pressed in limited numbers to be sent out to record labels and venues, distributed at live concerts and additionally offered as free download. Furthermore, the second sampler of the 'European Underground Extreme Metal Front" featured their track "In Fiction'.

In the summer of 2009, Jonas Wübbe entered as the new drummer of the band. Subsequently, instrumentation was reduced from three to two guitars - former bassist and singer Alexander Otto gave way in bass playing to former rhythm guitarist Nils Urginus, and concentrated on only doing vocals from then on.

From June to December 2010, the band entered Metallurgy Studios, Mönchengladbach, where the debut album 'Immersion' was produced. Taken from this production, the song 'Sorae' was uploaded to various internet platforms where fans and musicians sang from the treetops.

In 2011 Phillipp Olivier left the band, Henrik Tschierschky, long-term friend and former guitarist for the bands Harasai and Symbiontic, followed as competent successor.

Since early 2012 Words of Farewell cooperate with the German record label AFM Records from Hamburg. The first official act was the distribution of “Immersion” Europe-wide on March 30th and in the United States of America on May 8th, 2012.

Countless reviews from both national and international critiques awarded the album very high marks, in some cases the highest possible.

Shows on festivals as well as concerts with legends of the genre like Scar Symmetry and Dark Tranquillity followed.

In 2013, Jonas and Nils left the band on friendly footing and Tristan Wegner and Konstantin Voßhoff entered as new drummer and bass player.

Shortly afterwards, the second studio album "The Black Wild Yonder" was produced, once again at Metallurgy Studios. It was released world wide in March 2014. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Words+of+Farewell">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.