Workhorse is the name of more than one artist:
1) thrash/death metal from California, active since 2009
2) southern hip-hop
3) stoner rock

1) "…The unholy union of Sleep and Molly Hatchet….Trading in ominous heaviness for punk’s buzz-saw melodicism couched in metallic sound structures, WORKHORSE has managed to jump out of the rut of many of its peers. Instead of the dour stoicism of metal guys who mimic the faces favored by the gods of thunder, this band smiles on stage. Oh, sure singer / guitarist Randy Olinger sounds like he gargles with a low molar solution of sulfuric acid in the morning, and lead guitarist Jay Ditchen bears an uncanny resemblance to David Cross, right down to the goofy grin. But they both play their cutting, subtly innovative hard rock as though they’re having fun doing it. Maybe WORKHORSE is a bit of a misnomer, because these guys sure look like they’re having a blast." -Tom Murphy, Westword / Critic’s Choice

2) Workhorse has a unique cadence that lends to catchy dance anthems while his charismatic delivery keeps him connected to the streets. A true southern hip-hop artist, WorkHorse is making fans on every block and in every nightclub that welcomes his unique flow. 
McKinney “Workhorse” Williams started his label Monsta Entertainment, LLC to serve as an avenue to connect Mississippi’s brightest stars with a national audience. Workhorse’s philosophy was that "the hip hop industry had been stagnant… nobody wanted to take risks. The same formulas yield the same results and I was tired of meeting bored fans.” 
In an effort to get fresh lyricism out of the booth and into the streets, Workhorse took his own originals and presented them to DJs, hustlas, the ladies, and the hip hop heads all around Mississippi, Louisiana, Tennessee, and Georgia. The response was an overwhelming show of support. In no time, the Westside Jackson, Mississippi native was nominated for four Jackson Music Awards and two Real Talk Magazine awards. He went on to become the second Mississippi artist to perform at the JMAs, an honor shared only with David Banner. 
WorkHorse is a motivator, a ground-shaker, an innovator, and an educator. Still, through his expressive story-telling that encourages introspective thought, WorkHorse is most proud to be an artist. 
“I’ve been doing this for a long time. My father taught me to appreciate the art of music as a child. As a young adult, I discovered its power. Now, I recognize my power to create a movement with my voice.” 
WorkHorse is releasing the single “King of the Slab” this spring. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Workhorse">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.