Worldview is fronted by Oliver Shaw, an Oxford-based songwriter, performer and producer. Worldview aims to fuse the sounds of rock, pop and dance music with insightful lyrics reminiscent of Elvis Costello or Morrissey and the melodic sensibility of the classic 60’s acts. Oliver began playing in bands, including one with Coldplay’s bassist-to-be, then spent several years honing a one-man band approach in his studio, writing, singing, recording and playing everything in the manner of Stevie Wonder, early Prince or World Party. He self-released a debut album, the relationship-themed “War Years”, in late 2002, culled from home sessions. It enjoyed some airplay and praise for the “timeless quality” of the songwriting. A second set, “Paying For It”, followed in January 2005, with a more diverse stylistic palette and topics ranging from celebrity and consumerism to the Iraq conflict. The Oxfordbands.com website judged it “chock full of good tunes, clever lyrics and…united by a consistent, if rather misanthropic, musical vision”. As well as gaining FM and online radio exposure his tracks were featured on various unsigned compilation CDs. He appeared many times at major Oxford venues with a backing band from the ranks of other fledging local acts, and played some solo acoustic sets at London venues. Oliver then put together a new gigging line-up of Worldview, combining live instruments and PC, playing dates in Oxford and London, and an album, “Our Condition”, is available at the iTunes store. “Worldview's aptly titled "Our Condition" takes a snapshot view of modern living, with its raw honest exploration of life today...It's a strong offering with music that combines the ballads of REM with the dance beats of Duran Duran" - Oxfordshire Music Scene. The Credit Crunch is the subject of download single, “Party’s Over”, which along with other Worldview tracks is a staple of Internet radio stations. It features on the new Worldview album "Schoolboy Errors", released in February 2012. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Worldview">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.