There are three World Funerals:

1. Blackened Death Metal five peice band from Eindhoven, The Netherlands. One album: 'Scorched Earth Tactics'.

From http://www.myspace.com/worldfuneral666 :
"In the beginning of 2005 World Funeral was formed, after 2 years of experimenting with musical styles and musicians. Bassplayer Dstruktor M.R. created the foundations of what would become the final product that is World Funeral. Sater Bes joined the band as the vocalist and took Apparatus Orkhus with him as the drummer. The brothers Thanatos Magnus and Sinis Magnus crossed paths with these three and offered their services as guitar players. With the music constantly evolving WF managed to forge their sound into a dark breed of Blackened Death Metal. With lyrics based on horrific tales written in the journals of men at war, WF tells the stories that still influence the world as we know it today. An appropriate sound was created to accompany this lyrical theme; a shockwave of noise filled with gloom and violence. After recording “Scorched Earth Tactics” Apparatus Orkhus and WF each had to go their own ways due to circumstances beyond Apparatus Orkhus' control. A suitable replacement was found and Khaos closed ranks. Now WF is ready to storm the illustrious stages of the Netherlands and the vast wastelands beyond."

2 .World Funeral is a one man band from Brazil. The music is about depression. A Raw Black Metal Act .
http://www.myspace.com/worldfuneraldsbm Antonio's profile on Myspace.

Discography :

Profanação Suprema Split, 2006  
Hate Demo, 2006  
Hateful and Depressive Demo, 2006  
End of despair, Pleasures of Silence... Split, 2007  
The End... Demo, 2007  

3. World Funeral was a Thrash/Speed Metal band from Washington, USA in the early 1990's. They put out 4 Demo tapes. 

Pushin' Morality
Suffer Life
I Wanna Be God
Unnamed Demo


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/World+Funeral">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.