Wormbox initially formed in early 2004 in Calgary, Alberta, when brothers Mark and Rick Fiset answered a musicians wanted ad and met two longtime friends James Jameson and Jay Rapp. Musically, things came together very quickly while the search for the right vocalist continued. After a few months and many auditions, Alex Liddy entered the picture and the puzzle was complete. Rather than rushing out to play shows as soon as they were able, the decision was made to hold off and make sure they were as happy as they could possibly be with the performance of the songs, as well as have more to offer to people on top of well rehearsed, well crafted songs. With a demo recorded, an extensive line of merchandise, and as much of a stage and light show as they could muster - since most local clubs seemed to be lacking in that area - they decided it was time to take it to the people, and they did it with a vengeance. The shows got better and better, they received great reviews locally and abroad, and a fan base that continued to grow stronger. Wormbox captured the attention of Cyclone records shortly after their first couple months of playing live and they proved to be a very helpful ally and spread the news far and wide that Wormbox was a band to watch out for. Cyclone records offered their services to do a digital only re-release of the self titled "Wormbox" demo which was named one of the top ten Canadian metal releases of 2005 by metal net radio's Dr. Steel, and the CD or individual tracks are now available for purchase through itunes, napster and other fine online music retailers. Not bad for a CD that was only meant to land in the hands of promoters in order to start booking some local shows. As a bonus, the re-issue also included a previously unreleased track "Whiplash" which the band wrote and recorded at the request of the organizers of the Whiplash Open Air Festival. The song was to be used for promotional media for the festival, and though the festival never did see the light of day, Brad Trew and the fine folks at Cyclone decided to add the track as a bonus on the digital re-release. "The Greatest Underground Show On Earth" which was a compilation CD of metal bands hailing from the city of Calgary, was also released by Cyclone records and featured another track by Wormbox, "Hate Therapy," which also garnered more great reviews and public awareness for the band. It should also be pointed out that though Cyclone Records has been very helpful in spreading word about the band there actually is no contract between the two parties. Up to this point Cyclone's involvement has been purely out of a mutual respect. March of 2007 Wormbox entered Monster Music Studios and emerged two and a half months later with a new full length CD entitled "The Judas Chair" which was engineered, mixed and mastered by Rodger Sallans. On a side note, all of the CD artwork, as with all Wormbox promotional material from day one, was illustrated and designed by members of the band. The CD was released to the public on May 25, 2007 and Wormbox is currently in the process of playing shows and promoting The Judas Chair to bring it to the public eye. Wormbox has earned a reputation of having one of the best live shows in the Calgary area and they continue to strive to improve that with each performance, standing firmly in their belief that "Every stage deserves to be treated as a stage...especially yours!" <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wormbox">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.