1) Hailing from the swampy recesses of Florida, the American WORM is the work of one mysterious Fantomslaughter. To date, he's done two rare demos, The Deep Dark Earth Underlines All (2014) and Nights in Hell (2016), but now as a duo alongside one Equimanthorn, WORM present the fullest distillation of their foul 'n' fetid aesthetic in Evocation of the Black Marsh.

Ever aptly titled, Evocation of the Black Marsh comprises eight hymns to the spiritual swamp lurking in every listener. With titles like "Evil in the Mire," "Altar of Black Sludge," and especially "The Slime Weeps" and "Swamp Ghoul," it would be fair to assume that WORM would worship at the altar of Varathron's classic His Majesty at the Swamp. However, while faint traces of those Greek gods can be detected, across the 42-minute LP is a clanging, blown-out appropriation of early Goatlord and Mortuary Drape, but strewn with a screws-loose personality that hails unorthodoxy endlessly. It's a harsh and unsettling listener, but done with the authenticity and purity of black metal's earliest, pre-tabloid days - and where else would something harsh and unsettling end but at the swamp? Submerge into the slime and prepare for a true Evocation of the Black Marsh.

2) Worm is an Egyptian band that was formed winter 2003 in Alexandria by Ahmed Samadie, Tarek Shehata, and Ezz in hopes to play original material that combines both the industrial edge and the old school death metal sound, their collaboration spawned The Armageddon Codex which while it didn't perfectly represent what the band wanted to sound like due to many factors like short studio times and short budget it represented a step towards their goal and was a bigger motive for the band to work harder and cultivate more into their constructions and arrangements that now resulted in a stronger and more formidable band formation and entity in the local scene and the international underground death metal scene. Summer 2004 had witnessed the vocalist Ezz leaving the band for personal reasons. Winter 2004/2005 had Sakr joining the band on vocal duties. The Codex demo got pretty good reactions in the underground since its very release till today, the fan base is growing wider and the band was even cherished by members in other more well known and established acts which the band members themselves WORM consider as influential acts in the extreme metal scene. The band played a few shows and got very positive feedback as the fans stated that the band grew stronger and stronger each time and are considered by now one of the best death metal bands in Egypt.

3) Worm is also a dub/electronic/dance band from london.

4) Worm is a hungarian hardcore/metal band too.

5) Worm was an avant-garde band formed by industrial pioneer Genesis P-Orridge in the late 1960s who released two extremely limited albums.

6) Worm (an acronym for World Organization of the Righteous Movement) is an industrial rock band from Chicago, IL. Active since the 1990s, Worm (or W.O.R.M.) has also ventured into accoustic, metal and electronic styles. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Worm">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.