There are multiple artists known as "Wormhole" ...
1. Formed in Ringsend, Dublin in 1991, the initial line-up was twin brothers Anto and Dave Carroll (bass and drums respectively) and Graham Blackmore (guitar).

The music of Wormhole is difficult to categorise. Royal Trux and Pavement were cited as key influences during interviews but Wormhole doesn’t really sound like either of these groups. Reportedly a young Stuart Braithwaite (later of the band Mogwai) was an ardent fan. 

First album “Chicks Dig Scars” (recorded in seven days) was issued by local indie Dead Elvis in 1994. The group later signed with Roadrunner Records, then keen to diversify its roster. A couple of EP’s ("Lay It On" and "Chopper") were released before “Chicks Dig Scars” was reissued.

Favourable notices and a UK headline tour followed. But attendance was sparse and second album “Parijuana” was rejected by the label. The band was subsequently dropped.

Wormhole continued to play live and eventually changed their name to The Wormholes. Several line-up changes occurred. Records were released by a number of labels including Dead Elvis and a collaboration with Richard Thomas on Lo Recordings. 

The band dissolved around 2005 with Anto and Dave going on to form E+S=B.

2. The band that recorded Breath Wood Bone (on the Clinical Archives label) is a British ensemble doing avant-garde free improvisation and consisting of:
Will Edmondes - double bass and SU10 sampler
John Ferguson - Guitar and percussion/noise
Bennett Hogg - violin, viola, and piano

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3) New Cocoon - Dis.eased

Wormhole (Jake Flynn) is a HipHop / Grime Underground Mc and producer from Hawaii. Wormhole aka. Wermhoe is a Member of "Tree Dusk Muir"(Abomination,Nakral,Ovate,Rezult,Staplemouth,Toobz,Vyrus[Ex2],Wormhole )

The emcee name wormhole was solidified to represent how all living things, pick up it’s surrounding and projects data outwards. I am currently working on a group project called SUBMERGE, which consist of: Qreus, 3.14 and Wormhole Our first release will be a free NC download. This album is close to completion, keep fingers crossed for a new years release. Will be featuring THMS, Soda, Staplemouth, Jen Nakamura, Mikey Yeda Demune and Rezult. With production by Debmaster, Bareley Legal Beats, Lord Kufu, Abomination One, and Wermhoe. Lots of knowledge and motivation being dropped by the cocoon. wormhole@newcocoon.com 

Reborn and brainwashed in the island of Oahu, HI on October 18th 1983’ 

Wormhole: screams, rhymes and vocal bullets 
Wermhoe: live instruments and beat production AKA’s: Jake Flynn, Meatstorm, UncleZeph, AnuKnocks Part of 
these projects: 

Tree Dusk Muir:   Ovate, Rezult, Toobz, Vyrus, Staplemouth, Carcass, Nakral, and Wormhole 
Rogue Circuit:      Slew and Wormhole 
Mazaloth13:         Lxor and Wormhole
Pangaea2012:     Debmaster and Wormhole 
Merkaba:             Kaigen, Soda, THMS, James P. Honey and 

Wormhole Reppin’ NewCocoon PlagueLanguage Dis.eased all day shun….

http://www.myspace.com/wormpuka
http://www.newcocoon.com/

Label : NEW COCOON! Abolano Records
/dis.eased wrekkids/PlagueLanguage
Major Label <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wormhole">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.