There are a number of bands under the name Worship:

1 - One of the best known funeral doom bands in the underground. Founded by "Fucked Up Mad" Max Varnier from France and Daniel "The Doommonger" from Germany in the late 1990's, Worship entered the scene with their Last Tape Before Doomsday (MC 1999).

That album contained four songs of minimalistic slow doom metal, driven by the tortured vocals of Mad Max and the mournful guitar solo's by The Doommonger. Several splits were released on vinyl after that.

Worship was put on ice after the tragic suicide of Max in 2001. But, in 2003, Daniel decided that Worship would go on, and preparations were made for the finishing of the second full length (DOOOM), which was released in 2007.

In 2004, two new members (Kuolema and Satachrist) joined the band, and new recordings were made, which led to the release of the split with Loss in 2005. Worship has played live several times in the autumn of 2005.
Official Website: http://www.myspace.com/WorshipDoom

2 - UK band WORSHIP, hailing from Reading, Berkshire, caused waves of industry excitement after posting their first demo, ‘In Our Blood’, on their Myspace page. They were almost immediately brought in to record a Maida Vale session for Rob da Bank at Radio 1, and booked for that year’s Bestival.

The reaction the track received gave the band the confidence to take themselves off to Norway for a month of writing. Here they penned a selection of new tracks, including ‘Collateral’, which was playlisted on BBC Radio 1 and led to a slot on the BBC Introducing stage at Glastonbury (a performance which was singled out and plugged by Greg James at Radio 1).

Since then Worship have released their first indie single, House of Glass, and toured the UK with acts like Everything Everything, Dry The River and The Antlers. They’ve played numerous festivals and even supported rock legends Primal Scream. Most recently they appeared on Channel 4 for Curated by Lyle & Scott and headlined the first ‘Guardian New Band of the Day Live’ event.

Regularly featuring on tastemaker blogs and in publications like Artrocker, Kerrang, The Guardian and The Independent and with sporadic plays across Radio1, Kerrang Radio and XFM, Worship have cemented themselves as ones to watch for 2012.

Their latest offering comes in the form of "Leviathan" currently available as a free download on from their website www.worshipuk.com with the video premiered on ClashMusic's website as a featured item on the 4th of May 2012.

3 - Hardcore band from Southern California. Released a 5 song demo in 2008. Self titled LP set to be released by Reflections Records June/July 09. 
Their site.

4 - Is a Black Metal band from Greece which changed their name to Stutthof. The demo was re-released as part of Stutthof's "Devotion To Black Arts (1997-2005)" Compilation Tape.

5 - Electronic musician from Geneva, Switzerland. Worship produces 80s inspired synthpop.

6 - Sludge/doom/post-metal/hardcore from Salinas, California, United States

Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Worship">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.