Worstenemy, active since 1997, born from the ashes of Karnak in Oristano city (Sardinia). In 1998 the band leaves the thrash cover repertory and career into a new dimension of Death Metal, Florida style. Worstenemy kick of their live shows playing some of the most prestigious venues in Sardinia. Soon the band draw the attention of fans and metal employed thanks to the great blasting impact and true attitude. In November 2000 the band recorded their 1st self titled (and produced) demo at Ziggurath in Porto Torres, this demo containing 4 tracks: Strange Life, Karnak (Darkness In Me), Perverse Mind, New Enemy. From here on in, Worstenemy become a fixed name in the metal scene, in and around Sardinia. After a relentless live schedule and distribution of the 1st demo the band go on to record a further 2 new tracks ("Spectrum" and "Master Of Souls") in 2003 at Ziggurath studios. Soon followed by another track "Dissolved In Nothing" which is recorded within the confines of their own rehearsal room by Marco Marini (ex Doggo). In the 2005 the band release "Cursed EP"; it's a split vinyl with Mind Snare (veteran death metal band) released by Sardinian label Rapture Asylum Productions. In 2007/2008 the band play many live shows and even find time to record 6 new killing tracks at Marco Marini's studio in Sassari for the new debut CD "Under Ashes Of Wicked" again out for Rapture Asylum Productions, Dead line for this opus is planned for April 2009. Once the new record is out and hopefully drawing in more fan's of Worstenemy, the band intend to self promote their material in the hope that they find a record company who will have the means to bring out a full length CD which from start to finish will be a true battery of Death Metal.


Worstenemy are:
Mario Pulisci (vocals, guitar)
Andrea 'Döf' Fodde (drums)
Elena Zoccheddu (bass) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Worstenemy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.