There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Worth Dying For are a Christian Rock / Worship band from Modesto, CA, USA.
2) Worth Dying For are a Progressive / Melodic Death Metal band from Quebec City, QC, Canada

1) In today's culture, it may be difficult to find a worship band that pushes the edge musically and lyrically, and yet is still worship at the core. With the platform of Ammunition Conference held annually in Modesto, California, WDF has a mission not only to be a band but a youth movement that shakes the nation with the presence and power of God. What started out as a simple vision to write original worship songs given by the pastor of Ammunition Conference, Jeremy Johnson, turned into a youth movement of worship and originality. “Our desire has simply been to see our city saved and a empower a generation to reach their cities for Christ,” says worship director of Worth Dying For and Ammunition, Christy Johnson, “Our music and creativity is the bi-product of that passion.”

Jesus Christ and music are the two things that consume the thoughts and lives of the band. Combine the two, and you get the heart of the ministry; worship. They are ordinary people that have a desire to show others how to fall in love with God in a deeper, more passionate way. The music that God has used them to write has changed their ministry and city. Worth Dying For draws heavily on a theme that defines the band’s mission: Infiltrate, Destroy, Rebuild. Infiltrate every city with the gospel of Jesus Christ, destroy the works of the enemy, and rebuild today’s culture. This ministry is more creed than career, more mission than music. And the music, aggressive guitars, searing vocals and heart-provoking lyrics, speaks for itself.

2) While some might consider genres to be an obstacle to experimentation, Worth Dying For actually relishes in delving in as many as possible.

The Quebec-based sextet, active on the local scene since their 2002, when most of the band were still in their teens, has become known through word-of-mouth as solid performers who aren't afraid to display their love for all things metal. 

The current incarnation of the band has been touring and spreading their own mix of progressive / melodic death metal since 2006. It has since produced two albums, 2008's "Of Glorious Remains" and 2011's "Tears & Ashes".  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Worth+Dying+For">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.