WOSLOM is Silvano Aguilera (vocals and guitar), Rafael Iak (lead guitar), André Melhado (bass) and Fernando Oster (drums). They are natural of Sao Paulo city, Brazil. In November 2010, they released their first album called “TIME TO RISE” which got excellent reviews from specialized media. The band was also among ‘Best of 2010’ by websites Whiplash.net and by the radio Metal Militia and Roadie Crew Magazine.

In 2011, the band has been participating on TV and Webtv programs and has been performing gigs in their hometown, countryside and other Brazilian states spreading their work. They reached more than 40 gigs during this year. And they had an exclusively interview in Roadie Crew Magazine (most important metal magazine over Brazil).

The band has been recognized for the quality of video clips, Time to Rise and Mortal Effect (produced and released in 2011). Both videos had a special limited physical release in DVD.

In 2012, Woslom was on its first international tour “Time to Rise European Tour 2012”, they were in 10 countries between april/may and made 25 concerts. Some of them summer Festivals like SWR Barroselas in Portugal, Fields of Metal in Belgium, Emmen Metal Fest in Netherlands and played with Entombed in Sweden.

After that, the band concentrate the efforts on composing the new songs for the upcoming release. Between October 2012 and March 2013, they were producing the new album, called “EVOLUSTRUCTION”.

In 2013, WOSLOM releases its new album having now a better experience. Evolustruction brings three video clips, the physical CD brings a bonus of brazilian thrashers from Mad Dragzter and for the online version the band prepared an extended and alternative lyric version of Evolustruction single. They made a promotional European tour during Sep and Oct of 2013. There was 26 gigs in 7 countries, this time including Russia. After this tour, the band signed a deal with Punishment 18 for distribution of both CD’s in Europe and US.

In 2014, they releases a DVD called ‘DESTRUCTVISION’ which comes with all songs of ‘Evolustruction’ album in video format. With 3 produced video clips, lyric and animation videos. Also there are extras with live studio performance, interview and a photo gallery. They just toured in Europe again in September doing 25 dates.

In 2015, the band is focused on the new release, they are rehearsing and composing it while they make the final concerts for the Evolustruction Tour. The band tour first time in South America, outside Brazil, this time making 8 gigs in Colombia, traveling the whole country from north to south.

During this current year, 2016, they release the new album ‘A NEAR LIFE EXPERIENCE’ which is very well received by the local press. They make 2 release concerts, one exclusively by invitation and another one for more than 2 thousand people in front of the Galeria do Rock in their home land, called Rock na Praca Festival. They are also promoting their new album making a tour over Russia and Europe during May.

Keep Thrashing!!! <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Woslom">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.