In the year of 1996 the Flames of our ancestors kindled into our hearts, awakening our souls from dormant slumber, to sing of the deeds, tales and ways of our Fathers of Old. when our hatred began to form into wisdom, our anger into determination, our faith pledged to our Ancient Gods of our Northern Homelands.. This was the year Farkaskoldus was born, which soon was to become Wotanorden... The forests we grew up in called to us, in the midst of it's splendor, granting us visions of glorious times once embraced by our forefathers. The night breeze filled our lungs full of a calling, to awaken what once was, to make it be again! Our songs began to embrace in them the Legends and Tales of our great heritage. To renounce all Satanic meanderings, and the Fallacy which once was perceived as culture.. True to the Gods of our Fathers we now were, to Troth we pledged our hearts, to our folk we sworn to defend! The year of 2001 the flame known as Wotanorden was fully ablaze, lighting the pathway on the Eastern Shores of Vinland. In our songs, in our words, in our deeds, there is Honor, Glory, Determination, and the utmost pride of who we are as a folk, something that can never be taken away! Under the eye of the Allfather, we fight to reclaim our identity, and through song we sing of his Deeds, Wanderings, and Quests. The ancient and natural powers of the Multiverse known as Yggdrasil we seek to venture, to delve into the nine worlds of spiritual existence and awakening. For wisdom we sacrifice for it's gain, as our ancient Allfather once had done.. Donar's hammer is around our neck always,and above our hearts, never ending courage to push forth through every trial and tribulation! Tiwaz carved and stained upon our weapons, for victory we strive, until the Valkyrie leadeth our souls upon Bifrost on high, to the Hall of Shields, to Drink and Fight with our lost brothers and Father's again in the ranks of the Mighty Einherjar... This is What Wotanorden stands for, this is our life, way and calling, and our music is rooted deep in the depths of our spiritual faith! Our music is not of Politcal nature, but of a Folkish one! It is a reflection of our spiritual might, and endless struggle, to forever uphold, the Culture which is rightfully by Heritage.... Ours! ~Jorgen of Wotanorden   <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wotanorden">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.