Wovenhand (initially spelled as Woven Hand) is the personal project of David Eugene Edwards, former frontman of 16 Horsepower, featuring a revolving cast of collaborators from Denver, Colorado, United States.

The band began in 2001 as a solo project for Edwards while his primary group, 16 Horsepower, were taking a temporary hiatus. The band's first live shows were performed by Edwards and multi-instrumentalist Daniel McMahon; the debut, self-titled Wovenhand album was released in 2002 on Glitterhouse Records. Performances following this record were executed by Edwards, McMahon, drummer Ordy Garrison and cellist Paul Fonfara. 2003 saw a release of Blush Music, the score to a dance performance mostly composed of reworked material from the first record. Touring behind this album saw Shane Trost replacing Fonfara.

In 2004, Consider the Birds was released on the Sounds Familyre label, who has also released the previous Wovenhand releases domestically. Edwards performed the bulk of the instrumentation in the studio; he and Garrison toured behind the record as a two-piece.

2005 saw both the demise of 16 Horsepower and the Wovenhand debut of guitarist Peter van Laerhoven, a Belgian guitarist - McMahon and Trost were now inactive with the group. 2006's Mosaic album featured more input from Garrison and van Laerhoven, but still read like an Edwards solo album for the most part. Touring behind the record saw the inclusion of Pascal Humbert, 16 Horsepower's founding and long-time bassist. Nonetheless, Edwards also played solo tours at this time billed as Wovenhand.

2008's Ten Stones, conversely, was the first record from the group written and performed collaboratively; the project had thus evolved into a proper band, albeit with Edwards firmly at its head.

Since 2002, they have released 8 albums: Woven Hand (2002), Blush Music (February 2003), Consider The Birds (2004), Mosaic (2006), Ten Stones (2008),  The Threshingfloor (2010), The Laughing Stalk (2012) and Refractory Obdurate (2014). 

The current members of the live band (as of 2008) are Ordy Garrison (also of Slim Cessna's Auto Club) on drums, Peter van Laerhoven on guitar, and Pascal Humbert (also of 16 Horsepower and currently Lilium) on bass.

http://www.wovenhandmosaic.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Woven+Hand">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.