There are several bands called "Wraith" which include the following:

1) A melodic, guitar/vocal oriented glam/heavy rock band originating from Nottingham, UK. Wraith were formed in 1988 after the demise of another Nottingham band named Deuce. The lineup included talented lead guitarist Gregg "Greggo" Russel,  bassist Steven "Rimmo" Rimmington, gutsy vocalist Jedd Clarc and drummer Simon "Emmy" Hemstock. They released a series of albums commencing with the EP "Naked Agression" and including the excellent "Riot" (1988), "Danger Calling" (1989) with more recent releases being "Schizophrenia" (1996). The current album released in 2007 is titled "Evolution" and breaks somewhat from the previous approach. Vocalist Clarc left the band around 1995 but the demise of the band has been greatly exaggerated and guitarist Gregg Russell is still working hard on the band's future.

2) A Black Metal band from Atlanta, Georgia in the United States of America. Formed in 2002 Wraith are currently defunct due to personal differences in musical direction. However, during their short time together, they released two full-length albums "Pagan Howling" and "Shadows", both in 2003.

3) Industrial/Coldwave project :wraith: originally from houston, texas, though now in chicago, illinois.  wraith was started in 1997 and has appeared on several compilations, most notably, The Thirdwave Collective's debut compilation.  wraith is currently working on new and revised material after a short hiatus in which core member spent time in the U.S. Army Infantry.   For more info, visit http://myspace.com/wraithmusik

4) Drone/industrial/noise band from Edinburgh, United Kingdom.

5) A metal-infused hardcore band from Newport, United Kingdom. They disbanded in late 2009.

6) A metal band from Maun, Botswana.

7) Blackened speed metal/crust from Indiana, United States

Bandcamp <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wraith">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.