For the British Glam Metal band formed in 1980  see Wrathchild.

Wrathchild America (later known as Souls At Zero) were formed in Martinsburg, West Virginia in early 80's. The thrash metal outfit was formed by bassist Brad Divens with guitarists Jay Abbene and Terry Carter, and drummer Shannon Larkin. Wrathchild America released two albums for Atlantic Records; 'Climbin' the Walls'  (1989) and '3-D'  (1991). Despite the bands' success, with the onset of grunge in the early 1990s, mainstream interest in metal was on the decline. Inevitably, Wrathchild America became a casualty of the grunge-era, being dropped from Atlantic Records. Changing their look and style, they became Souls at Zero, and moved to Energy Records where they recorded 'Souls At Zero' (1993), 'Six-T-Six' EP (1994). Shannon Larkin left the band in 1994 to fill the drum seat in Ugly Kid Joe; and some time later in Godsmack as well. Jamie Miller replaced Larkin, and played on 'A Taste for the Perverse' (1995) - what would became the bands' last album. After touring in support of A Taste for the Perverse, the band broke up. As of 2017, Wrathchild America has reformed.

If you ever start a band that builds up a huge reputation based on local live shows and constant touring, let Wrathchild America be a lesson for you. The band was legendary in the mid to late 80's in the Maryland area when they were known simply as Wrathchild. After years of touring, playing gigs, and hard work, the band finally was signed to a major label with all the goodies (y'know, getting your record into smaller markets). However, some British glam band with the same name sued and forced the delay of the debut release. Though the band amended their name by adding America, it was their first huge mistake. They should have just found another moniker and gotten their product out in '88 when the genre was much stronger and could have used an album such as this to kick in the proverbial behind. By the time W.A. had this out, the entire thrash genre was falling to its eventual demise and they had missed the boat. Their subsequent release was far too late and was widely ignored. Even after the band changed their name to Souls at Zero and revamped their stylistic approach, the day had passed on an immensely talented and popular band who should have taken the world by storm.

Oh, about this album. It's pretty cheesy lyrically, but the music is exceptional throughout. "Silent Darkness (Smothered Life)" is creepy, their cover of Pink Floyd's "Time" is very good, and "No Deposit, No Return" contains enough energy to satisfy any fan. A worthwhile album to check out if you're into the late 80's thrash scene.

Jay Abenne: According to a posting on Tartarean Desire, former TOXIK drummer Tad Leger has launched a brand new project called LUCERTOLA (Italian for "lizard"). The group's musical style is said to be a blend of Leger's biggest influences: doom, old VOIVOD and Italian horror soundtracks (Goblin, Fabio Frizzi). Tad started out recording both guitar and drums himself, but was joined by his old BLACKENED SKY bandmate Andy Abbene and his brother Jay Abbene (WRATHCHILD AMERICA, SOULS AT ZERO) in early December 2005.

Terry Carter: [1]

Drummer Shannon Larkin has also played with Black Sabbath, Amen, Ugly Kid Joe, and Godsmack. Shannon also play in Kiddie Porn with Jay Abenne. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wrathchild+America">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.