For the American thrash metal outfit, see Wrathchild America.

Formed in 1980 and coming from Evesham, Worcestershire - WRATHCHILD almost and should have hit the big time. After original guitarist Phil Wrathchild (later to be Phil Volken of Persian Risk) departed, the above line up became the definitive Wrathchild. Live they were unparalleled. Hair raised to the sky, made up to the hilt, leather, studz, flashbombs .... WRATHCHILD were trash rock's greatest exponent and one of the founders of the worldwide 80's glam revival.
WRATHCHILD made the cover of Sounds magazine in 1983 I think. Unheard of for a metal or glam act. They also notoriously made the front page of the national newspaper The Daily Star late in their career but more on that later.

After producing some independently released singles and tapes in the early 80's and garnering a reputation as a wild live act, WRATHCHILD signed to Heavy Metal Records and began work on their debut album.

In 1984 WRATHCHILD released their finest moment : STAKK ATTAKK. This album was critically acclaimed and beats the socks of lots of other glam rock albums from the 80's. Classik songz like ...Trash Queen, Shokker, Stakk Attakk, Too Wild To Tame .... were included. Read my full STAKK ATTAKK review (includes the original back cover collage from the album)!

On his famous Friday Rock Show in 1984, Tommy Vance lauded praise on the track SHOKKER. This is what introduced me to the band.

This was followed by the infamous live at Camden Palace video (1985) which was released by Hendring. I've got it on tape from an old late night LWT show (New From London) and it captures WRATHCHILD at their very best. Full front and back cover scan from the video along with commentary!

With an informal fan club WRATHCHILD produced regular wild A3 Newsletters with personal messages from the band. Write to 'em and you'd always get a reply - I remember getting two wild letters from Eddie Starr and Rocky Shades.

Just as the big time was beckoning WRATHCHILD got into a bitter legal battle with their record company. This prevented them from releasing their second album and playing any live gigs. Arguably, this stopped the band acheiving any kind of worldwide success. Other bands caught up and stole the market in WRATHCHILD's absence. WRATHCHILD came out of their hiatus at the end of 1985 for a memorable Christmas concert at London's Fulham Greyhound. The party atmosphere backed up all the way to Hammersmith. Lots of scantily clad girls hung around outside while guys were letting off firecrackers. It was the first time I saw the band live and it was a hell of a gig!
After years more wrangling and hidden live gigs WRATHCHILD finally released THE BIZ SUXX in 1987(?) but it was maybe too late. THE BIZ SUXX had a few good songs but it was lacking in a good production sound. Following a third album DELIRIUM in 1989 and desperate to try and make some success, the boyz dropped their make up and over the top stage shows in favour of a more downbeat appearance. Although still great live - the music stood up - the magic was going and soon Wrathchild were no more. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wrathchild">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.