Wrath is a name used by (at least) 5 artists.

1) Wrath is a thrash metal band from the United States (Chicago, Illinois). They formed in 1982 and are currently still active. Their latest album RAGE released Oct. 12, 2018 on Combat Records.
Current line up:
Gary Golwitzer - Vocals
Scott Nyquist - Guitars
Gary Modica - Bass
Jake Fromkin - Drums

Former members:
John Duffy - Vocals
Dave Sollman - Drums
Rick Rios - Drums
Mike Fron - Drums (Amulance)
Kurt Grayson - Vocals
Mike Nyrkkanen - Guitars

2) Wrath is a Death Metal / Grind band from the United States of America  (Minneapolis, Minnesota). They formed in 2005.
Members:
Aaron T. Whitesides - Guitar / Vocals (Anal Blast)
Patrick Morris - Bass
Chad Brunsell - Drums

3) Black metal from Porto, Portugal, formed in 2000.

Current line-up
Quetzalcoatl - Guitars (Serpent Lore, Gorgonian, Scarificare)
Crusher - Bass/Vocals (Serpent Lore, Scarificare)
Miguel - Drums (Serpent Lore)

Additional notes
Wrath is mainly a post-Serpent Lore band. All the current and past members have been on that band too though the style is a bit different: A Black/Thrash base but without the symphonic approach of Serpent Lore (ex.: no keyboard player)

4) Wrath is a Technical Death Metal band from the Indonesia. Formed in early 2008 and are currently still active.

Line-up:
Adam P.R. - Vocals
Fachri Bayu W. - Guitars
Febiartito R. - Bass
Adianto Estara - Drums

5) Wrath is a prog metal band from Norway. Consisting of three relatively young Norwegians, the band is based in the West Coast cities of Bergen and Haugesund. Inputting their entirely different musical backgrounds Wrath is, their debut EP "Wrath" came to be during the many sessions done prior years. Themes of anxiety, social let-downs, Norwegian forests, etc. are mirrored through the music’s body and flame.

In June 2021 the band released their debut EP, which they’re describing as the tip of their musical iceberg.

Lineup: 
Jenny Rudi - Lead Guitar & Vocals
Sander Skogen - Drums
Leon Torskangerpoll - Bass

Links:
-http://www.reverbnation.com/wrathdeath
-http://www.purevolume.com/wrathdeath <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wrath">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.