Wrath of Killenstein is an American Metal band (with elements of Goth) founded in New York by the thorn-clad Killenstein (guitar and vocals). 
Their self titled CD demo "Wrath of Killenstein" was released in November 2000 featuring drummer Kenny Walters on the tracks "Whorella" and "The Raptus", Joe Coffey on lead guitar and Killenstein - rhythm guitar, bass, vocals and keyboards. 
The CD was well received by fans and critics alike and was featured in magazines and radio shows internationally including a "four skulls" rating in Rue Morgue and being labeled "Halloween essential" by Brave words & Bloody Knuckles.
After a few one-off live show performances with various stand-in musicians, a solid live band was put into place with Joe Coffey lead guitar, Matt Michael on 
drums and Mark Krohm on bass. The band found particular success performing at New York City area fetish parties and S&M clubs with a unique horror-themed custom stage show designed to adjust and fit each venue large or small.
In 2004 Wrath of Killenstein had two songs featured on DM / Sky records compilation "From The Shadows....Metal for the Modern Era" along with The Dillinger Escape Plan, Mastodon and more. The same year the band made an appearance at the Milwaukee Metalfest with The Misfits and in 2005 appeared at Gothstock in Connecticut with the Genetorturers.
In 2006 Killenstein released "Wrath Of Killenstein MMVI" , a re-vamped, polished re-working of the original demo CD released several years earlier.
Wrath of Killenstein recently hooked up with current veteran drummer powerhouse John "Servo" DeSalvo who had previously played with KMFDM (tour 97-2000), Chemlab,16Volt and is also a longtime member of BILE.
With a release date of October 13 th 2009 Wrath of Killenstein's "Igniisis Dance" (from the CD "Wrath of Killenstein MMVI" ) is featured in the BRUTAL LEGEND video game soundtrack with JACK BLACK ( from Electronic Arts) along side metal artist such as Judas Priest, Black Sabbath, King Diamond, Cradle of Filth, Rob Zombie, Marilyn Manson,Motorhead and more.
The band is currently recording new videos as well as their upcoming CD titled "St.7000"
Killenstein is also in development to produce a series of horror themed graphic novels. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wrath+Of+Killenstein">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.