Wrath of Azazel is a melodic black metal (black metal with power and thrash metal influences) band hailing from Budapest, Hungary.

The band was formed in 2002 by Ádám Ézsiás (drums) and Tibor Kapuszta (vocals) in Budapest. After a few enthusiastic rehearsals of the two of us we decided to search for other band members, and it turned out to be a hard task. Despite of the continuous line-up changes, a group-like thing came to life, which was named after Azazel by this time. We took part in several shows, but our songs weren’t too convincing. Guitarists came and went due to attitude problems or the lack of technical skills.

After a few years the former members remained alone again, and thought we had to create a new project. During an enormous drinking session we found the missing musicians, one of them had been in the band earlier: Barnabás Tordai (Bubu, guitars). The name of this project was Guts and Bowels.

Don’t know how but Azazel arose again from this line-up. Besides some Immortal covers we played our own songs on stage for the pleasure of an increasing number of people. It seemed that our star began to rise but unfortunately the usual line-up changes wouldn’t stop coming back due to attitude problems.

In November of 2004 a new member joined the band: Péter Tóth, who has been the synthplayer since then. On the one hand for the live playing opportunities, on the other hand for the manifestation of the early works, we recorded a 6-track demo (Fallen Angels) in the beginning of 2005. Despite of many praising words, it isn’t perfect at all, fails to meet our expectations both musically and qualitatively. If you listen to it, you should know that it’s just a directive about what the band wants to represent.

Not much later the bassist left Azazel, but the four of us didn’t want to give it up. We decided to search for reliable musicians and luckily found them relatively soon. In June of 2005 Ágnes Rudics (guitars, songwriter) joined the band, the sound improved and style has been basically determined since then by her. The line-up was completed in July by Viktor Mihalovits (Lexicon, bassist).

Thanks to the intensive rehearsals and the strongest line-up so far, the music became more sophisticated. It’s hard to categorize according to the conventional styles, but maybe it has something to do with melodic black metal. Since October shows have been given more and more often.

In January of 2006 we decided to modify a bit on the name, which has been already in our minds before. We had no problem with the name Azazel, but we wanted to clear up the mix-ups and misunderstandings. The band new name became officially Wrath Of Azazel then. In the summer of 2006 our continuous rehearsal-room problems seemed to be solved by favour of János Mihalovits and we acquired a permanent place to play. It had a great influence on our later work, we could practice more with each other and prepare for concerts under calmer circumstances. With a lot shows behind our backs we felt it was time to record our latest songs.

The second demo was made in March of 2007. It took place in a home studio in Tárnok. The sound engineer was Gergö Imre and the cover artwork was made by Goblin. The CD titled „Poison of Church” includes 4 tracks and you can get it from the band after our shows or it can be downloaded in mp3 format from our website. After we finished the recordings, Bubu (guitars) and Lexicon (bass) parted from the band unfortunately. In June a new guitar player joined the band but after two months Zefirot (Attila Torda) moved abroad. In July Beni Gotsák replaced Lexicon for one year. After this Bálint Lázár (bass) and Ákos Temesi (guitar) joined the band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wrath+of+Azazel">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.