There are four artists by the name Wren.  1)The Trip Hop / Experimental / Electronica project created by Cody Weber   2)  The pop/metal band from Brisbane, Australia.  3) The solo alias used by Fields frontman Nick Peill. 4. The 4-piece experimental/post-metal band from London, UK - Signed to Holy Roar Records. 

1) Emerging on the Youtube scene Wren, Cody Weber's brainchild, is a trip hop/electronica project.

2)  Wren was formed in 2004 by Davis Carter and Amanda Dallas.  Hailing from Brisbane, Australia, the duo met and began writing at university.  Their experience combined to create an edgy 'pop-metal' style.  A live group was completed with the addition of Jack Clancy (guitar), Lee Peeters (Bass) and Richard Young (Drums).  

They released a self titled EP in 2007 and are due to complete their first full length album in late 2008/early 2009.

3)  Wren is the solo alias used by Fields frontman Nick Peill. Peill had been consistently sending Melodic demos for some time until the label were finally convinced enough to sign him. Under the name Wren, Peill released just one single.

Wren have been likened to "classic shoegaze (Ride, Pale Saints, MBV) but with a kind of up-to-date progressive feel like Papa M or Manitoba." This approach definitely set the groundwork for the unique sound that would later develop into Peill's Fields.

On the 23rd August 2004, Wren's debut single, 'Drive Down Lines' was released on limited edition clear plastic 7" vinyl, with only 500 copies made. The single was intended to precurse the album 'The Egg & The Tree,' but after little promotion, the album was scrapped. It was to be released in Autumn 2004. Peill scrapped any future plans, then went on to form Fields.

4) Wren is a London postcore band in the vein of early Isis and signed to Holy Roar Records. Their debut album 'Auburn Rule' is out now via HRR. 
disciplesofwren.com
disciplesofwren.bandcamp.com
twitter.com/disciplesofwren <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wren">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.