At least five bands currently go under this name.

1) Australian stoner rock band. Formed in the early 90's, Adelaide, Australia's Wrench delve in California Desert-bred stoner rock spiced with space rock and some psychedelics. Often compared to the legendary Kyuss, the group comprises vocalist Nigel Ryan, guitarist Craig Elliot, bassist/keyboardist Jon McNichol and drummer Chris McNichol. After debuting with 1997's Planets Surface, they returned two years later with Oscillator Blues.

2) WRENCH are
Vocal/Synth : SHIGE
Guiter : SAKAMOTO
Bass : MATSUDA
Drums : MUROCHIN

Formed in 1992, WRENCH have released their debut album in 1994.
Since then they kept producing various kinds of music ranging from heavy/loud rock, hardcore punk to electro dance music.
They started quite early to collaborate with DJs and exceeded the border of alternative music and got much attention from people.
In 2001, WRENCH performed at SXSW held in Austin, Texas and made the crowd excited. They have now known as one of the leading bands in a Japanese music scene.
In September, 2007, WRENCH released their 8th album called “nitro”.
Their music is alternative. They put a lot of different kinds of music into one including dance music and made something new called “bleep rock”.
WRENCH released an album “drub” on July 9th, 2008 in collaboration with some guest artists.
On the same day, they released a 105-minute-long DVD which included a collection of gigs filmed from the early times when WRENCH was formed, to their latest tour after releasing “nitro” in 2007. In 2008 WRENCH have performed at several festivals including White Stage at Fuji Rock Festival,
the biggest leading festival in Japan.
Nothing cannot be compared to their sound as it is something very different. It’s time for you to experience their original sound that keeps evolving day by day!
You’ll hear what you have never heard before. 

3) Wrench is also a hardcore band from Orange County, CA with members of Throwdown & 18 Visions. Wrench only lasted for a few years, but their shows are still legendary in Orange County.

4) An alternative dance band from Austin, Texas, United States

5) Wrench is a Christian Metal band from Independence, Missouri. They are Heavy Metal with musical influences from Ozzy, Black Label Society, Black Sabbath, godsmack, Pantera, Tourniquet and Stryper. So far they have 2 albums to their name: Wrench (1998) and Catacombs (1999). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wrench">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.