There are multiple artists with this name
1. An American melodic death metal band
2. An Italian hardcore band
3. An American doom metal band
4. A German metal band

1. Wretched is a melodic death metal band based out of Charlotte, North Carolina. Formerly known as And Since Forgotten, WRETCHED was formed in September of 2005. Recreating what seems to have disappeared from the NC scene, is the blend of European, and American Metal. For the first time listener, WRETCHED brings sonic mayhem to their ears, leaving them with a craving for more. Keeping the NC thriving music scene going, WRETCHED are an immaculate take on this music scene. They are unstoppable, unyielding, and powerful live and on record. With a devastating live show, a show attendee leaves more than satisfied anticipating the urge for more WRETCHED.

Read more: http://www.myspace.com/wretchednc#ixzz0vZZjvdi8

Wretched Discography
(2009) The Exodus of Autonomy
(2010) Beyond the Gate

2. WRETCHED hailed from Milan, Italy circa 1980. The original line-up was Gigi on guitar, Fabio on bass, Giancarlo on drums, and Gian Mario singing. This version of Wretched debuted on their 1982 split EP with Indigesti. Although they originally sang in English, they soon switched to their native Italian, finding it better suited to expressing their radical political message. The band took strong anti-war and pro-anarchist stands through their lyrics and imagery. They also self-released all of their records on a label that came to be known as Chaos Productions. The band lived at the infamous Milano squat Virus, which played host to many hardcore shows in the early-mid ‘80’s. Wretched lived and breathed the DIY spirit of rebellion that they advocated in their music.
The band recorded their first EP before switching guitar players and drummers in 1984. Daniele (guitar) and Crema (drums) played on the next record, Finira Mai?, and on the full length. Appearances on BCT tape comps and the seminal international compilation P.E.A.C.E. spread the word of “Chaos non musica” to everywhere punk was being played. Zambo took over drums in 1985, and the band began its shift into more heavy metal territory. They recorded one more LP and a 7” before internal problems (including Mario’s shredded vocal chords) and line-up changes forced them to call it quits. Before melting down, they played the last show at Virus with Antisect. Unfortunately, Wretched’s strong commitment to doing themselves meant that their records have always been hard to get outside of Italy. An official CD discography (mysteriously missing the first EP) came out some time in the mid 1990s, and the Furious Years of Italian Hardcore compilation CD fills in the hole.

Releases:
WRETCHED/INDIGESTI split 7” (Autoproduzione, 1982)
IN NOME DEL LORO POTERE TUTTO È STATO FATTO EP (Autoproduzione, 1983)
FINIRA MAI EP (Autoproduzione, 1983)
LIBERO DI VIVERE LIBERO DI MORIRE LP (Chaos Produzioni, 1984)
LA TUA MORTE NON ASPETTA 12” (Chaos Produzioni, 1986)
IN CONTROLUCE 7” (Chaos Produzioni, 1988)


3) Wretched is a traditional doom metal band from Maryland, USA, playing the typical riffing doom which is so prominent for the area. They released three albums in the early nineties through Hellhound Records before breaking up in 1996. In 2004 they reunited.


4) A horror Metal band from Aachen on the Western edge of Germany that plays music in the tradition of Alice Cooper and (recently) Lordi.
Wretched consists of Ann T Christ (bass, vocals), BOB (guitars) and Locke (drums).

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Wretched">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.