WWO is a Polish hip hop group. The letters in the groups name originally stood for W Witrynach Odbicia.

The two members of the group who originally started the underground project, which was WWO ("W Witrynach Odbicia"), were: Sokol (rapper) and Jedker (rapper) establishing themselves underground in 1996 releasing singles like 'Flippery' and 'Kolenda' which were made on tape and sold underground. The group claim these singles were made purely for themselves, for their own pleasure and enjoyment of hip-hop. WWO is part of a wider crew called ZIP sklad, the members of which are: Jedker, Sokol, Pono, Felipe, Mieron, Jazwa, Koro and Fu. WWO's first album release was called "Masz i Pomysl". In that album featured 600V (who is also a DJ for TeDe), Wlodi and Pele from Ewenement, Deszczu Strugi, and the rest of ZIP Sklad, Majki and Korzen, Waco, Karton, Kuba, and others. After this album the group came into conflict with their record label "BMG Poland" and due to legal reasons could no continue producing under their current name. They had a choice: either give up enitrely or continue under a different name. Thus is December 2001 WWO ("W Witrynach Odbicia") ceased to exist and the group continue under their new name "W Wyjatkowych Okolicznosciach". In this group Deszczu Strugi joined the other two members, mentioned above. He has been acclaimed as arguably being one the best hip-hop DJ's in Poland. He has also performed for various other Polish hip-hop groups such as Mor W.A. and Trzycha.

The first album of WWO was published by BMG. Sokol became the co-owner of Prosto Music Label and Prosto Clothing. The new group then released their second album in October 2002 titled "We Wlasnej Osobie". Their best-known hits include "Nie boj sie zmiany na lepsze", "Sen", "Kazdy ponad kazdym" or "Damy rade". Their texts are in Polish. The two latest albums were both released in late 2005, titled "Witam Was w Rzeczywistosci" and "Zycie Na Kredycie". <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/WWO">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.