Born from the ashes of Raptor in 2003, the X Raptor started when the vocalist Ronaldo Oliva, the guitarrist Daniel Sant' Ana and the then bassist, former drummer, Marcio Martins began to search for new members to continue the compositions of what turned to be their first record, a 3 song Demo-CD, entitled Burning Hate. Luciano Matuck came to be responsible for the drums, as well as Luciana Garavello for the second guitar. With that formation, in the end of 2004, the X Raptor released then Burning Hate, receiving good reviews and calling the attention of the specialized media towards the band. The released was followed by several gigs as the band was finishing the compositions of what became their first full-length.

In 2006, with an album recorded and mastered, the X Raptor was passing through a major member problem, just stabilizing with the entrance of guitarrist Hugo Carlino and bassist Danilo Franchini. Complete the formation, it was possible the finish the arrangements to the release of their so-waited début, God From The Machine, produced by Ricardo Nagata and Glenn Zolotar at the Creative Studio, in Sao Paulo. The X Raptor shows up an evolution in their style, a thrash sound with high pitched vocals, adding new elements to their music including progressive interludes and more aggressive parts, tending to Death Metal sometimes. The alternation of clean and gutural voices adds a more modern feel to the album, as the guitar playing full of speed metal riffs addresses to the 80's Thrash Metal aura. Complex, intricate musical passages, as well as a different drumming approach come to complete their unique sound, resulting in a originality that will put them as a great revelation in the metal field.


Current line-up:
Ronald Oliveira - Vocals
Hugo Carlino - Guitar
Daniel Sant'Ana - Guitar
Danilo Franchini - Bass
Luciano Matuck - Drums 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/X+Raptor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.