There are multiple artists who have used the name "X".

1. X (American punk band) From the band’s earliest days, they were known for complex songs with a rockabilly edge. Unlike many punk bands from the same era, the band exhibited musical proficiency.

In addition, the band’s lyrics bore an amount of sophistication that was uncommon for punk bands at the time. Co-written by Doe and Cervenka, who was known as poet prior to joining X, the lyrics were more often than not poetry set to music. The lyrics were also co-sang by Doe and Cervenka, who complimented each other harmonically, adding a deeper layer to the music.

The band’s stint with Slash Records is the defining era for the band, when they released their debut album, 1980's Los Angeles. Los Angeles is considered one of the most influential punk albums to come out of the L.A. punk scene in the '80s. In 2002, the band was awarded an Official Certificate of Recognition from the City of Los Angeles in acknowledgment of their influence on the Los Angeles music scene and the city’s culture in general. 


2:  X (Australia) 

The Australian band called X, formed in 1977 by Rose Tattoo bassist Ian Rilen and Steve Lucas. They initially called themselves Evil Rumours. Their debut LP Aspirations (recorded by the equally great Lobby Loyde) is a punk classic (and was later reissued in the US by the revered Amphetamine Reptile label). Search for it you will be glad you did. A couple of members passed away early in their career. Cathy Green became a permanent fixture on drums. They were being groomed for bigger things and their LP ...And More was to get a big push from the label (White) but there was "an incident" involving the label and although the album was released it was no longer a priority. Probably because of this the band has long periods of inactivity, but continue to play nearly 30 years later including May / June 2009 with legendary San Francisco punks Flipper. They have released many albums and have a great reputation for their live-shows! Sadly Ian Rilen passed away in late 2006 from cancer, but Kim Volkman has stepped up to the plate. Their 2nd LP At Home With You has been reissued on Aztec Music with a bonus live album. Their music has been covered by the New Bomb Turks and  feedtime amongst others. The classic debut Aspirations has just been reissued by Aztec Music.

3: X (Japan)
Metal band from Japan, founded in 1982, X  changed their name to X JAPAN in 1992-08, when HEATH joined the band. Releases until Jealousy / Say anything belong to X. Later releases belong to X JAPAN.


4. Czech punk band formed in 2003.
5. Bulgarian metal band
6. An alias of Australian DJ Deepforces
7. An alias of Terekke
8. X is Javon Johnson, an American hip-hop lyricist from Houston, TX.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/X">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.