Fast drums, tight riffing, a pounding bass and blistering leads! The dutch band X-tinXion brings you old school thrash metal. The Bay Area sound is their main influence.

The story started about four years ago, when Peter decided to start a new band. He wanted to get back to his roots, which was thrash in the likes of Testament and Exodus. He invited some people who he thought were capable of realising his goals. Among them were Frans (also frontman of the extreme thrash band Stigma) and Corvin on guitar. Maurice handled the bass duties.

In just a few weeks this new band, who called themselves X-tinXion, already wrote songs like Deep Down Inside, Hands up High and Killing God. But Corvin wanted to focus more on mainstream music and decided to leave the band. Due to personal differences Maurice also decided to quit.

Peter and Frans carried on and found their new bassplayer Paul in the band Headhaunter. Just a few weeks later Stefan responded after seeing an add on the internet for a singer. Although they were missing a lead guitar player, X-tinXion started to record their first cd 'Twisting the Knife'. Paul and Stefan had to learn their stuff in just a month! They finished the cd, but were still missing someone to play the lead guitar. Stefan knew this guy Conrad who was looking for a new band and maybe wanted to join X-tinXion. He came by, jammed along and joined the band late 2005. For the very first time X-tinXion was complete! Gigs followed soon after. They thrashed throughout Holland with well-known bands such as Nuclear Assault. X-tinXion released 'Twisting the Knife' in March 2005. The reactions were extremely positive, which proved that true thrash was still alive and kicking!

Everything seemed well on the outside, but internal struggles were ripping the band apart. Musical differences ultimately leaded to the departure of singer Stefan in March 2006. The search was on for a new singer with more vocal capabilities. Only two months later, they found a new singer in the talented Monica Janssen (who also sang in IMP and played bass and grunted in A New Dawn). Her voice matched the old school sound of X-tinXion perfectly! It is a big step forward for X-tinXion and they hope to prove that soon by playing as many shows as possible! 

Currently X-Tinxion is recording a new CD with their new singer Monica Jansen

Note: Biography taken from X-Tinxions website, by their webmaster (Mitrumothy) en later edited by Elendaeril <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/X-tinxion">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.