Xaiphodius were first born sometime in spring 2002, when guitarist Jonte Björkborg and drummer Jens Vestergren decided to split their old band and start something new. During the summer they hooked up with bass player Björn Johansson and guitarist Max Karell as well. From the first moment on, the ambition of the band was to play heavy metal the way themselves loved it. With influences as Iron Maiden, Stratovarius, Edguy and also heavier acts, the band began rehearsing in October 2002. Even though a singer was missing in the line-up, it didn't stop the band from rehearsing frequently. Their first two gigs were sung by Jonte's sister.

In the summer of 2003, the band thought of taking another musical step with a third guitarist. After a couple weeks of searching without result, they found Johan Blomkvist’s ad and made a call. At the end of the following rehearsal, the band approved the 16 years old as a member. 

After almost a year of playing together, they now had the chance for a studiorecording. Sebbe Jansson, whom had rehearsed with the band from time to time earlier the same year, entered the studio together with the band for the recording of their first demosingle, "Descendant of the Gods". They received various critics, but made a successful debut gig with Sebbe in November. During the first months of 2004 new material finally got done and rehearsed for another gig in April. Afterwards, Sebbe made his decision of being a full member of Xaiphodius. The line-up was finally complete!

During the end of the following summer, the band yet again entered the studio. The new demo had almost been fully recorded, but due to a computer crash they failed to finish it. Instead of putting the pieces back together again, they used the winter for a time to time recording at Jonte's home studio. The result turned out even better than the previous summer demo. The band also spent three days at the end of the year filming a video for "Sacrificed", which is included on the demo.

In the beginning of 2005, Max decided to leave the band. No replacement is planned, as Xaiphodius now will go on without a third guitarist.
 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Xaiphodius">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.