Xanax is in a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. Used for short-term relief of mild to moderate of anxiety and nervous tension. 
There are at more groups using the name Xanax:  

1) Xanax is a Belgrade-based band, active since 2009, playing various venues in the city, Serbia and abroad.
Xanax mixes electronic and guitar sound bringing in elements of dub-step and trip-hop. The band released its debut album, “Under the Surface” ("Ispod Površine"), in May 2012, launching in Belgrade’s Dom Omladine, The album was produced in collaboration with Boris Mladenović (Jarboli, Veliki prezir), Nebojša Simeunović Sabljar (Dza ili Bu), and Dejan Stanisavljević (Beograd). The album was released by the label Ammonite Records, in cooperation with the publishing house IceCreamDisco and Live Nation Fusion Records from Moscow. The album contains 10 tracks, plus 4 remixes - all of which reached the charts in the last two years, with the song "Bright Day" ” ("Svetli dan") being named one of the 5 best singles of 2010 by the readers of the online magazine POPBOKS.
The lead single “Bright Day” ("Svetli dan") was well received throughout the region and further afar, spending several weeks on the charts of MTV Adria, receiving repeat airplay on Zagreb Radio 101 and Radio 8080 online, and with the song’s music video playing on Russia’s A1 television. The band supported the album with concerts in Serbia – Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac and the Sabac Summer Festival; in Croatia – Zagreb and Rijeka; in Bosnia and Hercegovina – Banja Luka and Doboj, as well as in Hungary and Poland. A highlight for the band was playing a series of well-received shows in Russia, at the Avant music festival in Moscow and St. Petersburg.
In 2011, Xanax contributed the song “Beneath the Surface” ("Ispod Površine") for the compilation Femixeta, which springs from the network of female creativity that gathered more than 16 bands and artists. Xanax took part in the compilation Re Start II (Bosnia and Herzegovina) with the song “Perfect Grid” ("Savršena rešetka"), as well as the FAIR SHARE fest in Belgrade’s Dom Omladine, which was put on by the regional MTV. Xanax’s song “Mašinerija” (Machinery – Remix) spent four weeks on the first position of the radio program Diskomer on Studio B (Belgrade) in 2012. A video was made to accompany the song, made in cooperation with the band Belgrade’s front-man Dejan Stanisavljević, who the band has worked with for over a year and with whom they are preparing songs for their upcoming album.


2) Band from Poland consists of: Sambor Kostrzewa (vocals) and Abandon All Hope (producer)

Sambor born in Tychy, southern Poland. He began his musican's career in kindergarten astonishing his carers with inspiring performances of English songs (anyway, he hoped it might have been something else than just a gibberish). When he was six he found The Beatles 'Help!' tape somewhere and loved it. Then he found another record, and another and... he discovered britpop. 
When in high school, bands like Blur, Radiohead and Oasis motivated him to play the guitar and write his own songs. He played with a few band but they have all split up sooner or later. By that time he really got into jazz and electronic music and abandoned britpop. Since then he has played with a variety of people but it never sounded right. He studies Economics in Katowice. His main inspirations at the moment (although it might not be heard directly in the music) are Erik Truffaz, John Scofield and Keith Jarrett.

Abandon All Hope born in a small town in southern Poland as Sebastian Kutarba. His father was a musician playing in a big beat band and transferred his passion for music to his son. Since he was a kid, fascinated by electronic music of Kraftwerk, Depeche Mode, Yello etc. Started producing music when got the first computer in 1990. Since then always up to the latest sound. 
The first demo recorded in 2000 reviewed in Polish magazine about techno music "Techno Party" got very good opinion. Two tracks from the second demo was issued in Polish radiostation "Radiostacja" specialised in non-commerce music. One of them won the radio's weekly contest "Pepsi-Faza" in 2001. 2002 resulted in second place in polishwide festival of electronic music in Bydgoszcz. In 2004 3rd place taken in a remix contest of "Supersonic" tune of Machineries of Heaven and a contract signed with a British label strictly-digital.com owned by Nookie, a DJ and a producer (well known for his record In@thedeepend released by Good Looking Records).

3) Metal-rock band from Czech republic


 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/XanaX">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.