There are multiple artists with this name:

1) Xasthur is an American one-man band founded in Alhambra, California by Scott "Malefic" Conner. Xasthur started in 1995 and released eight studio albums of ambient black metal by 2010, when Malefic announced the end of the project. However, he revived it in 2015 to focus on acoustic neofolk music, releasing a ninth album in 2016.

Musically and lyrically, Xasthur's focus is on astral projection, darkness, despair, suicide, hate, and death.

The first album Nocturnal Poisoning (recorded April-September 2001) was jointly released by independent record labels Blood Fire Death and Red Stream in 2002. Southern Lord Records re-released a remastered double-LP version in 2005. In the next years, Xasthur's full-length albums were released through labels such as Displeased Records, Moribund Cult, Total Holocaust Records, Battle Kommand Records and Hydra Head Records. Apart from demo and EP recordings, Xasthur has released several split albums with other black metal acts such as Orosius, Acid Enema, Nachtmystium, Striborg, Angra Mainyu, Leviathan and Nortt.

Xasthur has contributed to tribute albums to Ildjarn, Burzum and Judas Iscariot, and appeared on various compilation albums. Additionally, Malefic has collaborated among others with the drone metal project Sunn O))) and the black metal supergroup Twilight.

Malefic has toured with Sunn O))) and has joined Nachtmystium on stage, but stated in an interview for Pitchfork Media that he "will always keep Xasthur a band that will not play live". 

Malefic decided to end Xasthur in 2010 and formed an acoustic/dark folk project called Nocturnal Poisoning. At the time, Malefic stated that it was a different band. In 2015, he changed the name of that band to Xasthur and stated "I've returned to the name again since early 2015, it’ll stay that way, but the black metal Xasthur is definitely over."

2) Xasthur was a black metal band from Singapore that was active during the 1990s going on to only release one demo titled Hidden Lore. Each member later left to join other local groups. Caduccas is the only member still active in the music scene and is now working with the band Abattory. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Xasthur">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.