Xavier Naidoo is one of the most famous German singers -- and one of the most successful as well. His third album "Telegramm für X" has already reached platinum status four times. His lyrics deal with society, his strong Christian beliefs, and love. 

Xavier Kurt Naidoo -- born 2 October 1971 in Mannheim, Germany to a South African mother and Indian father -- sings in German and occasionally in English. He is known for his soulful voice and has collaborated with several famous artists such as the Wu-Tang Clan's RZA, Deborah Cox and 3-P's Sabrina Setlur , along with Swiss artist Stress. 

He sings in a number of styles, including soul, R'n'B and hip hop. His most famous releases include "Ich kenne nichts" (I don't know anything), "20,000 Meilen" (20.000 miles), "Soul on Fire", "Dieser Weg" (This way), "Danke" (Thanks) and "Sie sieht mich nicht" (She doesn't see me), which was featured on the German release of the film soundtrack for "Asterix". 

Naidoo's popularity has massively increased since he joined groups like Söhne Mannheims (Sons of Mannheim), and Brothers Keepers in the early 2000s. 

The first album was only released in the USA and is called "Seeing is Believing", but he was most successful with the 1998 released album "Nicht von dieser Welt" (Not of this world). It reached #1 in Germany, #5 in Austria and #12 in Switzerland. He gained major success with the 2002 released album "Zwischenspiel - Alles für den Herrn" (Interlude - Everything for the Lord). The most successful album was released in 2005, entitled "Telegramm für X" (Telegram for X). His most recent album is "Alles kann besser werden" (Everything can get better), released in October 2009.


Links:
Official Website: www.xaviernaidoo.de
Wikipedia article (German): de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xavier_Naidoo
Wikipedia article (English): en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xavier_Naidoo
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Xavier+Naidoo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.