1.) Xenomorph was a US death metal band that released a demo entitled Subspecies in 1993, a promo in 1994, and an album entitled Empyreal Regimes in 1995.

2.) Dutch Death Metal band XENOMORPH was founded in 1994 emerging from the underground scene in The Netherlands. Their most steady line-up became: DeTombe (vocals), Coert Zwart (guitar), Kreft (guitar), JRA (bass) and Marc Bomber (drums). They most likely got their name from the "scientific" predicate given to the aliens starring in the Aliens movie series. Their lyrics are mostly about evil, Satan, and other dark and occult stuff more than once inspired by the work of artists like H.R. Giger and Sir Ridley Scott.

After a couple of early demo tapes a first album was released in 1997: ACARDIACUS by Teutonic Existence Records.

In 2001 XENOMORPH released their album BANEFUL STEALTH DESIRE on System Shock Records, followed by a European tour with Master and Krabathor.

In 2005 XENOMORPH released their album NECROPHILIA MON AMOUR on UHBW Records, followed by a European tour with Macabre, Jungle Rot and Impaled Nazarene.



3.) In 1994 Mark Petrick started using the name Xenomorph and the first demo-tape called "Through the revealed heart" contained 6 songs which were given to all kinds of DJs like Steve Mason or Westbam to get their feedback. The early goa-labels did not really like the music until in 1996 Koyote Records have expressed their interest to release Xenomorph's debut single/EP followed by the first album "Cassandra's Nightmare", which was a world-wide success.

Xenomorph has produced numerous contributions to VA compilations for labels like Acidance Records, Mechanik Sound Records and Shaffel Records. In 2000 he collaborated with the israeli artist SKAZI on 2 songs of his debut album during his tour in israel.

After a long time of inspiration the second Xenomorph album "Qlippoth" was released in 2003 on Gnostic Records which is Xenomorph's own record label. Until today Xenomorph has continued to produce cutting-edge dark electronic music and he has done the mastering post-production for more than 20 releases of various labels including Spun Records, Manic Dragon, Peak Records and Acidance Records. 

The third Xenomorph's album ,"Demagoguery of Obscurants" was released in november 2007.

Xenomorph is the one-man band of Mark Petrick, based in Berlin (Germany). With nearly 10 years in the business, Xenomorph is one of the veterans in the trance scene who has played live shows in many countries all around the globe. He sees himself as the inventor of horror-trance, a unique style that was unprecedented in 1996 when he created songs like "Obscure Spectre" which has upset many goa-people and was considered "unspiritual" or "un-goa-ish". Regardless of the initial anti-sentiment against his music he has kept and refined his style throughout the years in which the community has become more open and appreciative for dark music.

Unlike most younger trance artists who just listen to trance music, Xenomorph was exposed to a multitude of musical influences like new wave, punk/post-punk, gothic, rock-music, death-rock, industrial, EBM, power-noise, death-metal, crossover/hardcore as well as classical music and soundtracks.

He started to be musically active in 1985 as a bass-player in a goth-band called "Fog Drowning". In 1990 he formed his own EBM band "Terminal Warfare" in which he was the lead singer and has composed the songs. He then joined the local band "Whippet of Trench" as a keyboard player besides his own project one year later. Due to him being a multi-instrumentalist, he was asked to play guitar/bass and keyboards for a couple of shows with the local industrial band "The Unkown" in 1993. As an enthusiastic fan of death-metal, he also found himself in loose collaborations with local death-metal bands as an audio-engineer/guitarist for their demo-recordings in the studio. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Xenomorph">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.