Formed in 79 We can't remember the exact date , the band really started when Harvi joined in 1980, played lots of shows around Bolton,Wigan,Blackburn & Machester areas also made it out to Yorkshire and london... The Band signed to Pax record and released tracks on the Punks Dead? nah mate the smell is something in yer underpans and Bollocks to the Gonads compilations also we did a 4 track single. we had a track on the Bullshit detector Comp released by Crass. .. the lineup changed a couple of times, Mick quit and Rod came on board just in time to do the Blame it on the youth single... Karl joined the Exploited in 83 and the band fell apart. Harvi called Kip and then Mick they got together and recruited Paigy this line up gigged for a short time but Kip called it a day saying that the sound was not working for him the band called it a day... Xtract 79-82 .. Harvi Vocals... Mick Bass. .. Karl guitar. .. Kip Drums. .. .. Xtract 82-83.. Rod...Bass replacing Mick.. Xtract 84.. Paigy guitar.. Mick bass.. Kip Drum.. Harvi Vocals.. .. 1985 and Harvi was not happy with the way the band ended and called all the guys but Kip had quit playing drums and Mick was not really interested in doing it again so Harvi put the word out and found 3 new guys,..enter Barny guitar Dylan Drums and Jon Kitson Bass... After Karl left the Exploited in 85 he moved back to Bolton and Harvi asked him to join the band this line up started gigging and played the famous 100 club in londons oxford rd, the band Supported GBH, UK Subs and Broken Bones at hte club also we supported the Addicts and later in the year King Kurt at Blackburns King Georges hall... we recorded two tracks for the Av a rotton Xmas comp that was released on Rot records... after playing a few shows with Broken Bones Terry Bones called Karl and asked him to join as second Guitarist, this was the final straw for Xtract and the band called it a day for good....well until now that is..we have been talking about doing this for about 3 years we finally got together (04-08-05) April 8th... so for the 1st time since april 83 Harvi Mick Kip and Karl jammed. Kip had not played since 84! but he had no problems and it was a blast!.. .. see ya somewhere on the road <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Xtract">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.