Manchester-based producer xxxy (born Rupert Taylor) is known for refining the propulsive, foot-forward sound of UK garage. Currently he's signed to various labels. Over the past year he has been quietly building a solid reputation with milestone releases on Infrasonics and Fortified Audio, as well as featuring on the seminal Fabric compilation "Elevator Music". With further releases set to come on labels such as Doc Daneeka's Ten Thousand Yen and Well Rounded, and a host of UK and European shows - it's little doubt that xxxy will leave a lasting impression on the UK underground.

He used to go by the name Forensix (mcr), or simply Forensix. The "mcr" stood for Manchester, since there was already a dubstep artist by the name of Forensics on the scene.

After the release of his first record, he took a break to tighten up his production. He came back in 2009 as xxxy which led to the releases of “Reflections ep” on the influential Manchester label Mindset and “Science Fiction/651” on Formant Recordings. By late 2009 he had begun to become more and more influenced by house music which had begun to take up a much larger section of his record collection.

2010 saw the release of a split of the very well received 12” on Infrasonics. Comprised of the Baltimore influenced “Blue Flashing Lights” and the Funky Roller “Know You” which was included in FACT magazine’s tunes of 2010 list. Later in 2010 he released the critically acclaimed garage influenced ep “Every Step Forward” on Fortified Audio.

The January 2011 release of “You Always Start it/Ordinary Things” on Ten Thousand Yen increased xxxy’s burgeoning reputation with Pitchfork picking “ordinary things” as it’s best new tune of the day “What’s so special about “Ordinary Things” isn’t its parts, though, but how impeccably they are put together…This rush comes complete with a joyous “Whoo!” sample to let you know that, yeah, while you’re getting the chills, this is still body-moving music.”

2011 will see releases on Orca, Well Rounded, Infrasonics & All City together with Remixes for Tri Angle and the Count & Sinden.

As a DJ xxxy has produced well received mixes for FACT, BBQ & URB as well as playing dates all over the UK and Europe.

A different artist using the name xxxy has released music through Iwithsiae Records.

For Korean Artist go to 젝시. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/xxxy">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.