Yaël Naïm is a French-Israeli singer and songwriter.
She was born in Paris in 1978 to Jewish-Tunisian parents. At the age of four, she moved with her family to Ramat HaSharon, Israel, where she learned Hebrew and trained as a pianist. She served in the Israel Defence Forces as a soloist in the Israeli Air Force Orchestra. She began her singing career with a part in the musical "Les Dix Commandements," and her first solo album, In A Man's Womb, was released in 2001. According to a Songfacts interview with her, it disappointed Yael, who decided she would be much happier giving up her dreams of stardom and making music on her terms.

 She also sang the song "You Disappear" by Bruno Coulais for the film Harrison's Flowers directed by Elie Chouraqui. For her early work she was credited simply as Yaël.

Naïm joined forces with percussionist David Donatien, and over a period of two years they arranged and recorded thirteen of Naïm's songs in a studio in Naïm's own appartment in Paris, and these were released as her second album, Yael Naim, in the fall of 2007 on the Tôt Ou Tard label. The songs are in French, English, and Hebrew and received critical acclaim, and the album entered the French album chart at #11 the week after its release. The style has been described as having a touch of folk and a touch of jazz, with mysterious and evocative words sung with a delicate and intentionally slightly husky voice.
In January 2008, her song "New Soul" was featured in the debut commercial for the MacBook Air laptop. The song gained fame from being featured in the ad, and it has peaked, as of February 1 2008, at #2 on the iTunes Top 100 Downloaded Songs.
Discography
* 2001: In A Man’s Womb
* 2007: Yael Naim

This is NOT an incorrect tag for Yael Naïm. The correct spelling of her name is Yaël Naïm and the correct spelling of her releasing name and 2007 album is Yael Naim. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yael+Naim">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.