Yawning Man is an experimental rock band from the La Quinta, California, United States. The band originally formed in 1986, although they released no studio recordings until 2005. They were one of the first influential bands in the desert rock scene.

Yawning Man was born in 1986, originally founded by members Gary Arce, Alfredo Hernández, Mario Lalli, and Larry Lalli. At this time, the band started to play marathon jams from the garage to the desert. The word spread of these generator parties, also called Dust Festivals, and all kinds of people would show up. Their music heavily influenced the likes of John Garcia, Josh Homme, and Brant Bjork to name only a few; who would later form the legendary stoner rock band Kyuss.

During this time, 30-40 songs were recorded on 2 different demos but no official Yawning Man material was ever released until 2005.Yawning Man's music began to mutate into strange loops with an almost dark / freeform jazz punk sound, and the name of the band just didn't fit the music anymore. The band changed to The Sort of Quartet.

In 2005, the first LP Rock Formations was released on the Spanish label Alone Records. Rock Formations is a collection of 10 tracks recorded in late 2004 and described as "a melancholic mix of acoustic space rock with elements of surf music, as well as middle eastern guitar style". Months later, Pot Head, a 4 track EP, slightly darker, with a heavier tone would be released. In 2006, Rock Formations was re-released with a limited edition bonus DVD recorded at W2 club in Den Bosch (NL), on June 17th, 2005, during their European tour.

In 2007 Yawning Man was to release a collection of past material on a double CD: The Birth of Sol Music. It was to be a collection of 30 older songs from the late 80’s with an extensive booklet including information about the band and the whole Palm Desert connection. According to band member Gary Arce this release has been postponed indefinitely.

This year will also feature the dawn of guitarist Gary Arce's next project, which may go by the name Echo Friendly Approach or Dark Tooth Encounter. Gary and Billy Cordell are joined this time by Chuck Dukowski Sextet drummer Bill Stinson. Contributions will be made by Australian master didjeridoo player Simon7 (Didjworks) with potentially some other surprise musicians- friends of Gary's from SST Records.

In 2008, An LP called Vista Point was released by Yawning Man. It is a combination of the Rock Formations and Pot Head releases.

In 2010 they released their newest record, called Nomadic Pursuit, which contains 7 tracks.

Current lineup consists of:

Gary Arce (The Sort of Quartet, Oddio Gasser, Yawning Sons, Dark Tooth Encounter, Waterways) - guitars;
Mario Lalli (Fatso Jetson, Orquesta del Desierto, Across the River, Dead Issue, Yawning Sons, Waterways) - bass guitar, vocals;
Alfredo Hernandez (ex-Kyuss, ex-Queens of the Stone Age, Orquesta del Desierto,  Family Butcher, Gusto, Persona Non Grata) - drums.

Former members:

Larry Lalli - bass guitar, guitar;
Billy Cordell (Unida, De-Con, The Whizards) - bass guitar;
Randy Reantaso - percussion.

http://www.yawningman.com <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yawning+Man">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.