Yelle is a trio formed in Saint-Brieuc, France in 2005, of lead singer Julie Budet (aka Yelle) and Jean-François Perrier (aka GrandMarnier), with Tanguy Destable (aka Tepr) joining prior to their début album.

Budet rose to fame on MySpace when she posted a song titled "Short Dick Cuizi", dissing Cuizinier, a member of the Parisian hip-hop group TTC.

With producer and close friend GrandMarnier, Budet has recorded a début album Pop-Up, after her hit single "Je veux te voir" (a finalised version of "Short Dick Cuizi"). The song, which samples the bassline from 20 Fingers' 1994 club hit Short Dick Man, received heavy airplay on MTV. She was also featured on Fatal Bazooka's song "Parle à ma main" in 2007. In February 2008 she performed the track "À cause des Garçons" on the BBC Three series "Lily Allen and Friends". The series claimed that this was her first appearance on UK television. She was MTV's 'Artist of the Week' for the week of 24th March-30th March 2008, appearing during adverts.

Yelle's second single "A cause des garçons/ACDG" is a cover song from an homonym 80's French band. A remixed version of the track by Riot in Belgium was featured on the soundtrack of Electronic Arts' computer game; Need for Speed: ProStreet. The song was also used as the opening song for the Moschino Spring Summer 2008 runway show

As of 2008, it is also featured in an advert being broadcast in Quebec for Telus, a Canadian telecommucations company and the 24th March episode of 'The Hills'. Her single "Je veux te voir" was featured on the series 4 final episode of Entourage, in the opening scene when the gang arrives in Cannes, and her single "Ce jeu" was played on Gap's and H & M's shop soundtrack in summer 2008.

The DJ Tepr has been touring with her and already remixed three Yelle's songs "A cause des garçons/ACDG" , "Je veux te Voir/Short Dick Cuizi" and "Ce Jeu".

Sites: YouTube, SoundCloud, Discogs, MusicBrainz, Wikipedia, Deezer, Twitter and www.yelle.fr (official) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yelle">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.