Yellow Claw is a DJ and record production duo from Amsterdam, Netherlands. The group consists of Jim Aasgier (Jim Taihuttu) and Nizzle (Nils Rondhuis). Their music is a mix of wide range of genres and often incorporates elements from trap, hip hop, dubstep, hardstyle and moombahton.
Yellow Claw first gained popularity in the middle of 2010, after founding and hosting a night party at one of Amsterdam's most famous night clubs, the Jimmy Woo. During 2012 and 2013, they released a number of successful singles, which charted on the Dutch and Belgian national charts: "Krokobil", "Nooit Meer Slapen", "Thunder" and "Last Night Ever". The music videos for the singles became viral, each gaining over four million views on YouTube. During that time, Yellow Claw performed at many Dutch festivals, such as DirtyDutch Festival, Sneakerz Festival, Latin Village Festival and Solar Festival.

In 2013, Yellow Claw signed to Diplo's label Mad Decent. On 7 March 2013, they released their first international EP Amsterdam Trap Music. In June, they performed at Diplo and Friends on BBC Radio 1, and in July – at the 2013 Tomorrowland Festival. On 26 September 2013, they put out their second EP, titled Amsterdam Twerk Music.

On 1 November 2013, after signing to Spinnin' Records, the group released their first international single "Shotgun", featuring vocals from Dutch singer Rochelle. The single peaked at number 10 in the Netherlands and number 20 in Belgium. On 8 November 2013, Yellow Claw released a collaboration single with Flosstradamus, titled "Pillz", under Fool's Gold Records and Ultra Music.

In 2015, Yellow Claw released their debut studio album, Blood for Mercy. The album's lead single, "In My Room" features American record producer DJ Mustard and American rappers Ty Dolla Sign and Tyga.

On 22 June 2016, Yellow Claw announced on their official Facebook page that MC Bizzey decided to leave the group since he became a father. EDC Las Vegas 2016 was their last show as a trio.

In March 2017, Yellow Claw released their second studio album called Los Amsterdam. The album's included several hit song such as "Light Years" featuring Rochelle, "City On Lockdown" featuring Lil Debbie, "Good Day" features DJ Snake & Elliphant, "Hold on to Me" featuring GTA. The album released under Mad Decent Label.

On July 2017, Yellow Claw Performed on the Mainstage of Tomorrowland 2017, this mark their first ever act on the Mainstage. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yellow+Claw">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.