Yeule is a London based electronic music artist. Yeule was born in Singapore and began writing music under this name in 2012. They also use the pen name Nat Ćmiel. The name “Yeule” comes from the Final Fantasy character Yeul. As a musician with a classical background, their experiments with electronic music initially were explored on platforms such as Tumblr and SoundCloud, where they revealed some of their earliest piano compositions and classical/electronic mixes. As of 2018, Yeule studies Fine Art at Central Saint Martins in London.

Yeule’s debut release was a self-titled EP (yeule) on March 8, 2014 through the independent Anaheim, California label Zoom Lens. This was followed by a mini album Pathos which they self-released on December 11, 2016 through their own Bandcamp page. During their time with Zoom Lens, Yeule collaborated with several label-mates, especially the Japanese producer LLLL. On July 15, 2017, Zoom Lens released the album Metempsychosis as a collaboration with Fakku, the largest English-language hentai publisher in the world. Yeule contributed their own song “Death of an AI” as well as performing vocals on LLLL’s song “If You Say You Love Me Then Die With Me.” Yeule released the EP Coma on September 27, 2017. Their final release with the label was the single “Pocky Boy,” released on April 4, 2018. They also made their debut live appearance in the United States by headlining the Zoom Lens event ᴹᴬᴸᶠᴼᴿᴹ.

On July 17, 2019, it was announced that Yeule had signed with the independent Brooklyn, NY label Bayonet Records. Their first release through the label was the single “Pixel Affection,” released on August 13. Prior to this signing, they had self-released the singles “Eva (demo),” and “Pretty Bones,” as well as self-re-releasing “Pocky Boy,” Coma, and the Yeule EP upon their removal from the Zoom Lens Bandcamp.

On October 25, 2019, Yeule released their debut full-length studio album Serotonin II.

Yeule teased the release of their sophomore album Glitch Princess via Bayonet Records with a track titled "My Name Is Nat Ćmiel" released at the end of 2020. Glitch Princess is set to release on February 4, 2022, and they’ve released four more singles from the album in the latter half of 2021: "The Things They Did for Me Out of Love," "Don't Be So Hard on Your Own Beauty," "Friendly Machine," and "Too Dead Inside."

Yeule has an official homepage at https://www.yeule.jp/. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yeule">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.