Heavy, doomy riffs in the tradition of doom, apocalypse, in universal space and time with undertones of the Cthulhu mythos and other dark themes, fact and fiction entwinded.

-YIDHRA


The Mad Lama of Prithom-Yang has written:

Yidhra, the Lonely One, craving the life of all things; Lonely One, needing the life of the Earth. Yidhra, the Goddess, ruling her avatar races; Goddess, of vulturine Y'hath of the sky, Goddess, of Xothra who sleeps in the Earth and wakes to devour Goddess, of men in strange places who worship her. Yidhra, the Hierophant, teaching her followers mysteries; Hierophant, teaching strange tongues of the elder world. Yidhra, the Bountiful, making the hills and the meadows green; Bountiful, showing the way to the desert springs, Bountiful, guarding the flocks and the harvest. Yidhra, the Lover, needing the seed of her followers; Lover, who must have the seed of all things, Lover, who must have the seed of change or die, Lover, whose consorts are changed, infused with the seed of the past and changed to forms not of past nor of present. Yidhra, the Mother, bringing forth spawn of the past; Mother, of all things that were, Mother, of children of past and of present, Mother, whose children remember all things of their fathers long dead. Yidhra, the Life-Giver, bringing long life to her followers; Life-Giver, giving the centuries endlessly to her children and lovers and worshipers. Yidhra, the Restless One, needing the sons of new fathers; Restless One, sending her followers forth to seek new blood for her endless change, Restless One, craving new lovers outside the blood of her worshipers lest she and her spawn and her followers shrivel and wither in living death. Yidhra, the Dream-Witch, clouding the minds of her followers; Dream-Witch, hiding her shape in illusion, Dream-Witch, cloaking her shape in strange beauty. Yidhra, the Shrouder, wreathing the faithless in shadow; Shrouder, devouring the errant and hostile ones, Shrouder, who hides men forever. . . <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yidhra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.