Yotam Avni is a DJ and producer from Tel-Aviv, Israel. He has been tipped to be one of the most prominent and exciting figures to emerge onto the scene in recent years. An accomplished producer, in-demand remixer and versatile DJ, he has fast transitioned from Tel-Aviv’s best-kept secret to one of contemporary house and techno’s leading lights. 

Avni's music career began early on; even at the young age of 19, he compiled and produced experimental music for Modern Ballet, while working as a Music Journalist and holding down a DJ Residency at Tel Aviv's leading club nights. His back catalogue releases offer a wide musical range from Abstract Electronica through to Soulful House and Detroit Techno. 

Despite his young age and natural talent, he has already worked behind the scene with some of the world's greatest producers such as Osunlade, Derrick May, Jovonn, Shlomi Aber, Terrence Parker and more. As a Club Owner ('Resek') and Promoter, he is responsible for 'AVADON' - “Tel Aviv's leading Techno night for the past 3 Years” (as said in 'Electronic Beats' and 'TimeOut' magazines).

In 2015, Yotam Avni released his biggest hit to date: 'This Is How' on Josh Wink's label, the legendary "Ovum Recordings". Unsurprisingly, “This is How” became Juno's top selling track and was voted as one of “The best tracks of 2015” according to 'Groove Magazine' (Germany). The track was remixed by the great Dutch producer Steve Rachmad and both versions appeared on Ben Klock's BBC Essential Mix, making Yotam Avni one of the most talked about artists amongst the new wave of young Techno producers.

In 2016, Avni signed to Lucy's Stroboscopic Artefacts record label where he will expand his discovery of experimental Techno whilst at the same time carrying on his roots within the House legacy with 'Pentimento', a Tribal House Anthem with a remix by the house master, Joe Claussell.



2017, started with Yotam joining 2 of the most influential record labels in the industry Innervisions & Hotflush Recordings. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yotam+Avni">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.