You Me At Six are a 5-piece pop punk band from Weybridge, Surrey who formed in 2005. The five piece played locally until early 2007 when spring support slots with Saosin at Leeds Cockpit (03.05.07) and later Paramore at the Colchester Arts Centre (10.06.07) saw them attract media attention from the likes of Kerrang, Musicscoop and NME. In July 2007 they supported Tonight Is Goodbye on their summer tour along with Death Can Dance and then later that month were featured in Kerrang! magazine in their new music section. The group were then recruited as support for firstly Fightstar on their September tour and then Elliot Minor in October 2007. Following their return from those tours they headlined a special Halloween show at the Kingston Peel with support from notable local acts such as Consort With Romeo and We Have A Getaway. In October of 2007 they released their debut single “Save It For The Bedroom” on Slam Dunk Records and then went on their first headline tour with support from Flood Of Red playing six dates across the country. In December 2007 the band were announced as support for The Audition’s February 2008 UK tour. You Me At Six were also nominated for Best British Newcomer at the Kerrang! Awards 2007, the category eventually went to Gallows, and headlined the London KOKO whilst playing Klub Kerrang. On December 10th 2007 the band added the B-side to their single “Save It For The Bedroom”, “You’ve Made Your Bed” onto their official myspace.

In November 2007 You Me At Six were signed by Slam Dunk Records, an independent record label who are producing and promoting the band’s debut album Take Off Your Colours. The album was released in stores and for digital download on October 6 2008 which reached number 25 in the album charts the same week. They released a single the previous week on the 29th September entitled “Jealous Minds Think Alike” where they played an in store performance at Banquet Records in Kingston. The release of their debut album was accompanied by a promotional tour beginning October 15, in which they headlined the London Astoria, a venue which they had hoped they’d be able to headline before it is knocked down in 2009. They also played in several HMV stores around the country to promote their new album, the first being the HMV on Oxford Street, the day of the album’s release. The song”If You Run” from this album is also available to download for free from their website. On the 10th October they announced they would be supporting Fall Out Boy, (along with Boys Like Girls) on their UK arena tour. In March 2009, You Me at Six headlined a tour in the UK doing seven dates from 6 March to 13 March, playing at Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Glasgow, Newcastle, Portsmouth and London. The tour was dubbed as the 777 tour, with support coming from Emarosa and The Spill Canvas. On May 24th they headlined Slam Dunk Festival, held at Leeds University.

On 11 November 2009, Josh Franceschi announced via his Twitter account that their second album was completed, and would be released in early 2010. AbsolutePunk.net later announced the album would be titled Hold Me Down and we be released through Virgin Records on January 11, 2010. The band then announced shortly afterwards that their first single, “The Consequence” was available for free digital download from their official website.The Album was recorded in Reading as was their previous record Take Off Your Colours.
Later, the band announced that the first official new single from Hold Me Down is titled “Underdog”. The song was later made available for free streaming on the band’s myspace.

www.youmeatsix.co.uk
  
 Band members are: Josh Franceschi (vocals), Max Helyer (guitar and backing vocals), Dan Flint (drums), Matt Barnes (bass guitar) and Chris Miller (guitar). <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/You+Me+at+Six">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.