Jeffery Lamar Williams, better known by his stage name Young Thug (also uses the name "SEX!!" and was briefly known as "Jeffery"), is an American rapper from Atlanta, Georgia who is signed to Gucci Mane's 1017 Brick Squad Records, Asylum Records and Atlantic Records. Thug grew to prominence in 2013 after releasing his mixtape 1017 Thug to positive critical reception. He has collaborated with artists such as Gucci Mane, Young Scooter, Rich Homie Quan and Waka Flocka Flame.

Thug was born amongst the masses eliminating any doubt that he wouldn’t be special. The second youngest child of 11 children developed a skill for standing out amongst many, early. Young Thug moved to Jonesboro, an impoverished suburb of Georgia where his lifestyle was engrossed by the crime, drug addiction and violence that surrounded him. It was there that he developed an insatiable appetite to succeed his current situation. After discovering and acknowledging his talent and creativity for music in  2010, Thug started a new hustle that would soon mature as one of the most promising music careers in the South. He also founded the record label YSL ( Young Stoner/Slatt Life) in 2010.


Eyeballing the throne of Hip hop royalty, Young Thug began to create a sound and style that would inevitably place him on top. Young Thug’s catchy verses and raw lyrical talent distinguished noise from art, clearly being the latter his creations are the best that remain of Southern hip hop. He is the embodiment of the evolution of Southern hip-hop. Young Thug is the representative for a generation that doesn't see hip-hop as a hobby but a lifestyle. Keeping true to himself, his art, and his home Young Thug will stand alone as the one true savior of the Southern movement.

2. Young Thug aka The Demon Child is hardcore/horrorcore rapper/beatmaker from Central France. Often collaborated with Lil Prod. Also he made 2 albums under the alias Da Mystic Terror, in these 2 albums he changed his voice to make it sounds like it's an other person rapping.
Official blogspots:
http://demonchildproductions.blogspot.com/
http://lilproddiscographie.blogspot.com/ <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Young+Thug">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.