Young and in the Way was a metal band from Charlotte, NC. The lineup consisted of vocalist Kable Lyall, guitarist/vocalist Rick Contes, drummer Randy Baucom, and bassist Chris Nolen. Derrick Gause was their live bassist. 

Since forming in 2009, the band released various EPs and splits both independently and through labels such as Antithetic Records, Headfirst Records, and A389 Recordings. Their debut album I Am Not What I Am was self-released digitally on March 24, 2011, and limited edition CDs were pressed through French label Swarm of Nails. The band announced their signing to Deathwish Inc. in 2013 via their Facebook page and were heavily promoted by the label as well for their upcoming second full-length album When Life Comes to Death. A music video was filmed for their song "Be My Blood," and the album was released worldwide on May 27, 2014.

Randy Baucom and Rick Contes are members of fellow Charlotte atmospheric black metal band Ayr. Worsen is Rick Contes' solo black metal project. Randy Baucom and Rick Contes also perform drums and guitar, respectively, in Votnut, while Kable Lyall is their bassist.

Young and in the Way have made some of their releases available for download on their own Bandcamp page at http://youngandintheway.bandcamp.com. Visit their official homepage at http://www.yaitw.com.

In early 2018, following allegations of sexual assault committed by members of the band at a house they were staying in after a show, the band decided to break up, citing "We can’t accept fault, but we also can’t prove our innocence. That we could even be suspected of such a crime brings us to the end of the road. YAITW is no longer on Deathwish Inc and will not be playing anymore shows. There is nothing left for us to say." in a Facebook post. They had previously been dropped from their label and several upcoming festivals they had been scheduled to play, including Psycho Las Vegas and 71Grind IV. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Young+and+in+the+Way">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.