Youth Code is a duo made up of raw, punishing, industrious electronics built from the seeds of hardcore and early Wax Trax. Ryan William George and Sara Taylor from Los Angeles, California, United States blend chaos with catchy dance undertones to create a sonic fury paralleled to none. Formed in 2012, using all hardware to perform, Youth Code have already proven their path with being the first band outside of Psychic TV to be put out by PTV's own label Angry Love Productions as well as a full length LP entitled Youth Code on the flawless Dais Records roster.

An EP entitled A Place to Stand was released by Dais on September 23, 2014, which features four original tracks and four remixes by Sanford Parker (Corrections House), Clipping., God Module, and Silent Servant.

Youth Code was a part of the North American Eye vs Spy tour in support of Skinny Puppy, Front Line Assembly, and Haujobb that ran from November 28 to December 20, 2014.

Another US tour with Skinny Puppy called Down the Sociopath began in October 30 and ended November 21, 2015. A new single entitled Anagnorisis was released by Dais on November 19, 2015. 

The second LP entitled Commitment to Complications was released April 8, 2016 on Dais Records.

Listen: Commitment to Complications LP
Listen: Anagnorisis 7"
Listen: A Place to Stand EP
Listen: Youth Code LP
LIsten: Keep Falling Apart 7"
Download: Demonstrational Cassette
Buy: Dais Records Merch
Buy: Youth Code Merch

Youth Code Bandcamp
Youth Code Facebook
Youth Code SoundCloud
Youth Code Tumblr
Youth Code Twitter

Current Members:
Ryan William George - programming, vocal manipulations, synths
Sara Taylor - samples, synths, vocals

Discography:
2012 - Demonstrational Cassette (demo)
2013 - Keep Falling Apart (single)
2013 - YOUTH CODE (LP)
2014 - A Place to Stand (EP)
2014 - An Overture (compilation)
2015 - Anagnorisis (single)
2016 - Commitment to Complications (LP) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Youth+Code">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.