Yves Tumor is the solo moniker of Sean Bowie, the enigmatic multi-instrumentalist and producer based in Turin, Italy.

Evolved from a diverse and prolific creative history under an expansive plethora of covert aliases, plus strong ties with forward-thinkers such as Chino Amobi and Mykki Blanco, Yves Tumor emerges as Bowie's most personal and matured incarnation to date, with 2015's When Man Fails You being their first release under the Yves Tumor alias - a unique blend of ambient, industrial and sound collage elements coupled with surprising pop sensibility.

Yves Tumor would release Serpent Music the following year. Painstakingly written from pieces developed upon since 2013, it was initially composed as a soul record – based around delicate and emotive songwriting in various forms. The album spans sonically diverse and richly-textured pieces, formed from live, organic instruments, samples and various field recordings. Dreamlike lo-fi psychedelia sits alongside broken electronic experimentations, ambient compositions between abrasive noise offer insight into a haunting otherworld.

Since 2016, Bowie has released an additional three records, Experiencing the Deposit of Faith in 2017, 2018's surreal mixture of post-industrial and neo-psychedelia, Safe in the Hands of Love, and the equally explosive and eclectic Heaven to a Tortured Mind in 2020.

Yves Tumor has been hailed as one of the most original and exciting artists in experimental music today, and has amassed a passionate following as well as relative success with a series of electrifying singles such as Noid, Gospel for a New Century, and Kerosene!.

The Yves Tumor live experience offers a thrilling, jarring counterpoint to their recorded self, designed to detonate in a range of contexts, from a punk pit to a low-lit club: a wild card on stage that confronts both sonically and gesturally, ripping preconceptions asunder… the fangs of Serpent Music bared and bloodied.

—— Yves Tumor Aliases——————————————————————–
2011 - Teams 
2014 - Shanti 
2015 - Bekelé Berhanu 
2015 - Rajel Ali 

—— Yves Tumor Collaborations——————————————————————–
2012 - Bodyguard (collaboration with James Ferraro)
2012 - Teamm Jordann (collaboration with Daytime Television)
2013 - Silkbless (collaboration with L.R. Bedman)
2015 - The Movement Trust (collaboration with L.R. Bedman)
2016 - Trump$America (collaboration with Dedekind Cut) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Yves+Tumor">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.