Zane Trow was born in London, England, 1956. He left school to be an artist, but dropped out of fine art-school to study experimental music composition. Trow has since been professionally involved in the contemporary live and sound arts since the mid-1970s. His work spans creative development, performance art, sound installation and musical composition for dance, theatre, visual arts and film, contemporary performance direction, community arts, critical writing, arts consultancy, project and curatorial management services, arts organisation, festival and event artistic direction, arts management training and cultural policy activism. He has studied Kathakali dance/drama percussion in India and toured multi-media art to Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan and India. He works with improvisation and sound art treatments thru pure frequency modulation synthesis, complex digital delay systems and with Ross Bencina's Audiomulch sound software.
Recent electronic sound and music includes installations for the Centre for Contemporary Photography and the Melbourne International Arts Festival, synthesizers, devices & delays for George Telek (an ARIA award winning CD), sound art for the ABC "Listening Room" and voice compositions for experimental theatre.
Recent performances in Brisbane include ambient raga/sound improvisations at dawn for the Powerhouse Turbine Hall space. He is currently working on a long-term series of large scale sound installation/performance projects with David Toop, Richard Barrett, Scanner and I/O at South Bank Parklands.
His work as a curator in live art and new media in Australia has involved major projects with the National Gallery of Victoria, the Art Gallery of NSW, the Victorian Arts Centre, QUT, RMIT University, Scienceworks and the Sydney City Council. Published writing includes RealTime, Artworks, Dance Life, Westspace "Dialogue" and "Artists Talk" and Australasian Performance Studies Journal.  <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zane+Trow">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.