Zaplaxa (pronounced Zaplaha) started 8 years ago in the small Bulgarian town of Ihtiman. Marian (drums), George Kardjov a.k.a. Joro (guitars, roars)  and Asen (guitars) became tired of their previous music projects and decided to play something that they really enjoy - extreme metal. Influenced by the 90’s metal/crossover and new school hardcore bands, Zaplaxa started writing songs. They could be described as 100% negative inspired music with angry lyrics touching on topics like hatred, deception, betrayal. Along with Christian Milchev on the bass the band made its first performances. Over the years Zaplaxa played with prominent Bulgarian underground metal bands such as Fyeld, Propaganda, Overdawn, Collapso, 8 m/s, Chains, Hate Campaign, ITSI, Cut Off, InXile, Redrum, Distorment, just to name a few. With the live performances and the dedication to their music, Zaplaxa slowly gained popularity in the underground metal scene. The year 2006 marks their first recording - a debut EP that was called “The Aggrlesson”. Meanwhile, the band started to play more complex and progressive riffs taking their music to a new level. 2009 saw a slight change in the line up. Tani (ex Delate) joined on the bass to fill in the departure of Christian. In 2010 Zaplaxa recorded and released for free download 3 new songs. This recording marked the direction in which Zaplaxa was already heading - a more progressive and variable music, but still heavy and disturbing as in the early days of the band. With the help of Miroslav Dimov from their hometown, Ihtiman, Zaplaxa made a video for one of the songs, “I want this war, I want these victims” - their first official video attempt up to date. 2013 sees the band heavily stepped on the ground, still playing their favourite music and recording the first full length record due sometime in the Spring.

www.reverbnation.com/zaplaxa
www.myspace.com/zaplaxa
www.mediafire.com/?8qcsp3lh95y84ve
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XrH10WRBtz8
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zaplaxa">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.