There are, at least, seven bands called Zarathustra:

1) German black metal band

The Beginning
Zarathustra was formed in summer of 1996 in Solingen/Wuppertal, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany to celebrate pure traditional Black Metal. The bandname goes back to F. Nietzsche, author of "Antichrist" & "Thus spake Zarathustra". The past founder members were Alastor (vocals), Mersus (drums), Manox (lead guitar) and Disruptor (guitar).
F.T. joined the ranks on bass in autumn 1997. Shortly after, the first demo "Black perverted aggression" was recorded. In November 1998 the second demo "Heroic Zarathustrian Heresy" was unleashed and in 2000 the first album "Dogma Antichrist" followed.

The Rebound
After several line-up changes, in January 2003 Zarathustra was in the studio to record three new songs, whereof two were released on the 7" EP "Nihilistic Terror", which among other things contains a cover-song from the Australian legend Hobbs Angel of Death.
End of 2003 the second full-length album "Perpetual Black Force" was recorded and marked a new era for the band.
After F.T.´s discharge out of the band in the end of 2004, Desecrator joined the position on bass. Shortly after, beg. of 2005, 5 new songs (incl. a cover-version of German Black Metal veterans Poison) of dark, atmospheric and traditional Black Metal were perpetuated in the unholy chambers of Necromorbus Studio in Sweden for the latest release of the mini-album "Contempt" plus two additional tracks for an upcoming 7" EP.

The Pact
Since March 2006 Zarathustra made a pact with the devil in the form of a contract with Agonia Records for two albums. The third full-length album "In Hora Mortis" has been recorded in May 2006 in Necromorbus Studio and was released in September 2006. 
According to their Myspace, Zarathustra is working on a new, still untitled, mini album which will be released in 2009 via Kneel Before The Masters Throne Records on CD and LP and which will contain 3 new songs and over 18 minutes of raw but atmospheric NON SERVIAM black metal.

Other info:
http://www.zarathustra-online.net/

2) an avante garde band from Cape Town. 

Zarathustra holds the opinion that certain genre's of music should not compromise it's creative integrity for financial gain, and therefore they make all their music availble for free on-line.

Their lastest album Yūgen is a integrally informed concept album. Its songs represent the sequentual stages of the Alchemical Opus. Consequently, each son
g expresses a specific stage of psycho-spiritual evolution - from the archaic to the transpersonal. Yūgen was inspired by the work of Ken Wilber, Carl Jung, Jan Smuts, Friedrich Nietzsche, Shakyamuni Buddha and the Alchemists

The musical style of the album was influenced by the Japanese concept of yūgen - which describes the subtle profundity of things, revealed or suggested beauty, at once elusive and meaningful.

https://www.facebook.com/pages/Zarathustra/211163635577742


3) German progressive rock band

Formed in Hamburg (Germany), this obscure 70s heavy rock band is in the vein of popular British, American bands as Deep Purple, Atomic Rooster, Vanilla Fudge, etc. Their well played and intense rock is strongly melted with progressive tendencies thanks to the use of massive electric organ parts, long instrumental and technical structures, extended jam and adventurous climax. With intelligence and constant creativity, the quintet was pertaining to the evolution of rock music, particularly sensitive to new approaches from everywhere, British late 60s style to psychedelic feel and krautrock experimentations.
Providing a high level of musical qualities, this brilliant band deserves the attention of any 70s prog rock lovers.

4) Also Zarathustra was an industrial funk band in Brisbane, Australia 1994 to 1997. 

Several members wend on to form Butterfingers. Zarathustra didn't realease any albums but theres some demos & live recordings about. 

5) Zarathustra is also an electronic artist who has been featured on releases by FatureNet Recordings.

6) Industrial Noise artist from Israel. Zarathustra released album called Chernobyl.

7) Mid 80's japanese post-punk/gothic rock band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zarathustra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.