Zaria is the name of more than one artist:
1) Zaria (Slovenia)
2) alias of Zaria Van Jaarsveld
3) Russian EDM
4) ambient/chillout

1) The band was started in 2011 by Inez and Miha, who in their desire to create original music, sought out the remaining members. Together they formed an epic-folk metal band called Zaria. The first original songs came into existence that very year, their number steadily growing as time went by. 2012 saw the beginning of their concerts. Soon after that, they took to the DYZ Sonic Temple Studio where they recorded their first EP, entitled Sij obzorja (Glow of the Horizon). After another year of intense creative work and practice, they entered Studio Rojas and began recording their debut full-length album in spring 2014. It was released in December that same year, bearing the name Po poti življenja (Upon the Trail of Life).

In the future, Zaria wish to perform as much as possible and present themselves to the public thoroughly.

Bandcamp: http://zaria-band.bandcamp.com/releases
Official site: http://www.zaria-band.si/
Facebook profile: https://www.facebook.com/Zaria.band/

-----------------------------

2) Blending a delicate voice with ethereal lyricism, Zaria Van Jaarsveld's music is often haunting, always new, and uniquely her own.
Zaria emerged onto the music scene in 2004 both with solo shows and opening for established South African artists such as Karen Zoid. She was the youngest solo performer in the 2006 Levi's Vintage Sunday series. The songs "Wonder Jy", "Silwer Reen", "I Want to Know" and "No Caterpillar Dreams" have received considerable radio airplay and "Music of the Sun" (from "Far Away") was the number one downloaded independent South African MP3 for 2 weeks running on SAMP3.com.
Zaria's signature song, "Wintersong" was released internationally by Prikosnovenie (France) on the CD "Effleurement", which also included music by Loreena Mckennit. Wintersong spent 2 weeks at number 1 on QFM 87.5 in the Netherlands, remaining in the top ten for 8 weeks. She performs solo, as a duo with classically trained Indian sitarist Rex van der Spuy, or with her "Electro-Acoustic-Fairy-Rock" backup band, Firefly which includes Rex van der Spuy on electric guitar and sitar, Damian Staz on drums and Dauphin Mbuyi on bass guitar.
She is a prolific and highly original songwriter, having independently produced her first CD, "Dreams" at the age of 19 in 2003, followed closely by "Far Away" and her first entirely Afrikaans album, Wonder Jy", in 2005. She produced her 4th album, "Someday", with her backup band Firefly in 2007, and her fifth, "In the Garden", in 2008.

Official site: http://www.zaria.co.za <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zaria">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.