There are more bands with the name 'Zeal':

1.)Zeal is Australian audio/visual artist Robert Jarvis.
2.)Zeal are a rock-pop band from Thailand.
3.)Zeal - a Canadian drum & bass producer.
4.)Zeal were a postrock/indie band from The Netherlands, now active under the name of Palloc
5.)Zeal - a Metal band out of Bangladesh.
6.)Zeal - a Christian metal band
7.)Zeal - Czech dnb/dubstep producer URL: http://www.myspace.com/zealcze

1.) Working under the professional pseudonym Zeal, 25 year-old Robert Jarvis produces experimental indietronica,  animated music videos and jumps around on stage with a hacked guitar hero controller.

2.)Zeal ซีล (Thailand) are a 4 piece band and produce slightly different rock-pop songs than most Thai bands integrating alot of electronic effects, guitar effects, MIDI synths into their songs. They have 5 albums currently: 1 - Zeal, 2 - Trip, 3 - Space , 4 - 4Real, 5 - Grow.

3.)Zeal is a Canadian-born electronic music visionary that has found his production niche in bass music. Through the diverse sounds of liquid funk and future bass, his passions and innovative drive translate into everything he procures. His creative influences range from Fred V & Grafix, Camo & Krooked, Metrik, Hybrid Minds, Dawn Wall, Yotto all the way to Porter Robinson. Wherever there is emotional energy, there is Zeal. 

4.)Influenced by musical genres such as postrock and indie, Zeal make compact songs usually from long jam-sessions. Their songs are made on a base of tension-creating drums and dragging bass overlapped by fine organs and guitars. Feminine vocals and some clarinet finish off the compositions. With sometimes slow, then again transverse songs, the band creates a unique, characteristic sphere, which also continues in their webdesign and artwork. 

5.)Zeal as it is now exists since 2005, but the band has already been active in different formations for some years. The band performs through the whole of the Netherlands and has hit the stage in Germany en Belgium. They played together with bands like Logh (SE), Confuse the Cat (BE), Coparck, Seedling and The Spirit that Guides Us. "Where ships go by" (2006) is their 3rd EP after "all of a sudden" (2003) and "moving north" (2004). 

6.) The Christian metal band Zeal was made up of Rich Wilkins on Lead Vocals; John Johnson on Guitars and Backing Vocals; Phil Bradshaw on Bass, Keyboards and Backing Vocals; and Rikk Weltmer on Drums and Backing Vocals.  Their song "Loner" was featured on Pure Metal's Big Rage, Volume 1.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zeal">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.