Dave Jones, AKA Zed Bias, Maddslinky, Phuturistix.... a producer and DJ from deep within the UK dance music scene. He scored his first top 30 track with 'Neighbourhood' before setting the blueprint for the darker UK Garage sound at the end of the 90s. He was asked to mix the definitive "Sound of the Pirates" compilation and at this time began to infuse a jazzier influence into his tracks. Alongside remixes for Whitney Houston, Destiny's Child, The Streets, Kosheen and Gabrielle, Zed was instrumental in the formation of an alternative urban scene that was more about the music than fashion brands. In 2001 he was nominated for 'Best Garage Act' at the MOBO Awards. After achieving relative commercial success in the UKG scene, Dave was signed to EMI music publishing in 2001, and worked with people such as Miss Dynamite, Amy Winehouse, Ray Gaskins and Mpho Skeef. It was also in 2001 that Dave decided to start the Maddslinky project, creating a new direction for garage, somewhere between the West London sound and garage's b-line dynamics. The Maddslinky project included help from Kaidi Tatham from Bugz in the Attic, Will White from Propellorheads, DJ Rocca and MC Juiceman to name a few and was signed to west London beats label Sirkus in 2001. Having remixed 'Hook And A Line' for 2Banks Of Four, the 'Make Your Peace' LP hit the streets mid 2002 and received acclaim from DJ's worldwide, including Gilles Peterson, Benji B, Domu and Afronaught. In 2002, 'Maddslinky' started as resident DJ down at the legendary Jazz rooms in Brighton, on a night called Askew. This eventually spawned a record label of the same name in 2004, and the two releases so far are Maddslinky productions ('Spilt Milk' and 'Something Extra' featuring Jenna G). Since moving to Manchester in 2004, Dave Jones has been working relentlessly on producing LP's for new artists on Phuture Lounge, as well as working hard on his long term project with Injekta, Phuturistix. 2006 saw the emergence of material from the Phuture Lounge with releases from both Maddslinky and Phuturistix… Currently Zed Bias has reemerged having spent nearly 2 years conducting Biasonic experiments in his audio laboratory in Manchester… the result is an album project for Liverpool’s emerging Sick Trumpet imprint, “Experiments with Biasonics”.  The new material takes on many different forms, combining elements from Zed’s long standing career, fusing hip hop, house, grimey beats and future electronica… plaudits have come from every angle, from Dixon to Laurent Garnier, Mr Scruff to Mary Anne Hobbs, Gilles Peterson to Benji B, Unabombers to Afronaught… As Justin Unabomber said “Truly 30th century music. Awesome!” Zed has also started his Podcast adventures… Check out the Zedcasts currently available in Cyberspace… 

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zed+Bias">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.