The Zedher's Coffin (formerly known as Zedher) born in 1998 at the hands of Agonia (bass and vocals) and Azeman (guitar), with the intention to create an extreme metal with horror veins without use of keyboards.

The first sign of vitality is shown in the self-produced demo "We'll All Die", recorded with a drum machine, but this demo has suffered a poor distribution. Later, we decided to expand the line-up to give the band a great sound and visual impact on stage, with Agonia only as vocalist. After a long time, in 2003, into the band enter a permanent drummer (Mechanix) and a permanent bassist (Maleun): this group is recorded, in 2004, at the Outer Sound Studios, the self-produced mini "Metal Possession". The style that characterizes the new work is the combination of heavy thrash metal and black horror shades, so the band decides to label it as Extreme Horror Metal ".

"Metal Possession" received positive feedbacks from experts and allows the band to participate in a great number of concerts in support of such high caliber band as Gorgoroth, 1349, Cephalic Carnage and Setherial.

Azeman left the band in 2006, and this is the reason why the band slows down work for the debut album, because there are many difficulties to find a replacement. In 2010 the band changed its name to ZEDHER'S COFFIN; and animated by a strong spirit of revenge, it decides to create the debut with the formation of 3, where Agonia is also a guitarist. The first six months of the year are dedicated to writing and arranging the pieces that composed the debut album "The Coffin Is Open... Again!"

Zedher Coffin's sound incorporates a dark and atmospheric vision of black metal, a continuous flow of parts typically malignant and black as ink to more reasoned where the judicious use of the melody helps to forge a powerful and atmospheric sound. A band at the lyric expresses concepts of hatred, anger, but also occult and Satanism, all under a view typically HORROR, their real trademark. In 2010, Coffin's Zedher range from the cemeteries of civilization to bring hatred, misery, despair and Satan, free from any connection: ANTI ALL. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/ZEDHER%27S+COFFIN">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.