At least 12 Bands / Artists have this name.
1.    A Aracajú (Brazil) hardcore/crust punk band.
2.    A California A progressive metal band.
3.    An industrial/grime/club act from Kansas.
4.    A country-twinged underground rock band from Austin, Texas.
5.    An British punk band active during the early 80s.
6.    A late 80s/early 90s Thrash Metal band from Liverpool, England.
7.    An Industrial Electronica band formed in Stockholm, Sweden.
8.    A Danish rock band.
9.    A German Minimal Techno/Trance artist.
10.  A punk band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  
11.  A German "Neue Deutsche Welle" Band.
12.  An alternative rock/metal from Sydney Australia.

Biographies listed below: 

1. A hardcore/punk/crust/antifascist band from Aracaju, Brazil. Formed in 2014, the band plays aggressive, weird and fast riffs, with politicized lyrics, and full of rage.

2. A progressive metal band from the California Central Coast, formed in 1991. Band members included Jason Lamb (lead vocals), Mark Schiesl (guitar), Frank Cook (bass), and Andy Cook (drums). Joel Kelly (lead and rhythm guitar) was also a member. The band released a self-financed the 1995 album The Eyes Of Time.

3. An industrial/grime/club act founded in 1999 in Wichita, KS. Originally a fusion of classic industrial (sometimes called "coldwave") and grindcore metal, the band was put on extended hiatus when members left to pursue diverse artistic outlets. Having recently reactivated, the band has since evolved to a more elegant, keyboard-based ensemble, often referring to themselves as "pop music for the apocalypse."

4. A country-twinged underground rock band from Austin, Texas.  After their first album, "Translate Slowly," this Zeitgeist changed its name to "The Reivers."

5. A British punk group which released two singles, "Shake-Rake" and "Touch", on Human Records in 1980

6. A Thrash Metal band from Liverpool, England who released 2 demos, MindStorm in 1989 and Blacklist in 1990.

7. An Industrial Electronica band formed in Stockholm, Sweden. They are influenced by 6581 Sid Music and Julius Caesar, calling their style "Industrial Legionary Synth". Formed by Tomas Danko and Kenneth Mutka (aka Slaygon), their style is an evolution of the music started years ago on the C64, more recently with albums such as 6581.


8. danish underground band 

9. german Minimal Techno / Trance artist http://radioactivecake.lima-city.de/

10. A punk band from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  Released 1 demo in 2011 and a 12" in 2012

11. They  released an Album ca. 1982

12. An alternative rock/metal act from Sydney, Australia. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zeitgeist">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.