There is more than one artist called Zeit:

1. Zeit (aka Daniel Donnachie) has arrived straight from Camp Cosmic. Playing music has been a major passion for over half his life now. Every day he craves to learn about music he hasn't discovered yet whilst listening to music that has already been attained. He frequently tries and go through his favourite DJ’s bag to hear ones he hasn't heard about and not devoured yet. Since the age of 16 he has been gaining experience in all types of scenarios and parties, learning about vital underground classics and rarities along with taste making new artists that come to light over time. Since the start he has had a string of residencies in clubs and bars in Leicester, Nottingham, Stoke and London. Guest gigs all over the UK and a small number of gigs abroad. He has been the protégé to a DJ called Kelvin Andrews. He is one of the few DJs in the UK who has been involved in making music, spinning tunes and putting on parties since the inception of the UK dance scene in the early '80s

2. Zeit was a group based in Florence, Italy, active between 1979 and 1981, as others they tried to mix traditional folk tunes with typical mediterranean and eastern-flavoured atmospheres. Their albums are close to the "world fusion" experiments made in the same period by Mauro Pagani with Carnascialia. 

3. Zeit aka Tommaso Cimò is an Italian musician, born in Florence on 29 October 1977. In his youth he approached classical music through his studies of the violin, recorder and musical theory. He soon discovered its dark side, belonging to the exponents of the cultured avant-garde of the '50s and '60s, and as a result began to experiment with tapes and various effects. Then, he moved to modern electronic music from the German cosmic movement of the '70s and followed the different branches borne from there. In that period he approached synthesis through the use of analog synthesizers and sequencers.
In the following years, he studied and taught himself guitar and piano and he was interested, in parallel with electronic music, in several other musical genres having a particular preference for psychadelic music, progressive and jazz-rock. In this period he also enjoyed some young bands and concurrently deepened his knowledge of electro-acoustic music, concrete music and minimalism and enriched his musical background and repertoire by experimenting with ethnic acoustic instruments and field recordings. In 1996, he attended a course in cinematography, where he learnt the fundamentals of direction, shooting and editing. He undertook the role of assistant director for a period of time and filmed and produced a number of short films characterized by the use of longlenght shots.
Since 2001 he adopted the pseudonym Zeit and set up the "MAG" home-studio from where he recorded music and videos. Respectively from 2001 and 2002 he recorded but as yet these recordings remain unpublished, two CD-Rs "Cosmic Trails" and "Probing the Depths". The foundations of these musical works are mainly electronic distinguished by a marked Teutonic sound. In 2003 the magic meeting with Alio Die led him to the thresholds of "Sunja" (see Alio Die & Zeit).

4. Zeit is Swedish band from Gothenburg, commonly described as a modern "shoegaze" band. The key concept behind the music is simplicity and repetition. This is often combined with a simple and straightforward melody structure. They so far released one self titled album 2010 on the Swedish label Ominous recording, followed by the EP "Life is just a blur" 2013 and the latest single "Your Eyes" in September 2015. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zeit">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.