There are two bands going by the name "Zelda": 1) Rock band from Japan. 2) Black/Death metal band from France. 

1. ＺＥＬＤＡ (ゼルダ) was a Japanese rock band active between the 1970s and 1990s. They played a pioneering role as one of Japan's first all-girl bands. They were also the longest running all-girl band.

Led by Sachiho Kojima (小嶋さちほ), the band covered an impressive range of musical genres, from new wave, punk, pop, and funk to other african music. Zelda played a seminal role for later bands with their forays into roots music and experimental sounds.

The name of the band is based on that of Zelda Fitzgerald, the wife of American author F. Scott Fitzgerald.

Formed in 1979 by Sachiho Kojima, a bassist of BOYS BOYS. Performed the first live at Shinjuku Loft . In addition to Kojima ( bass ) , the first members were Kay ( vocals ), Yoko Suzuki ( guitar ), Kuniko Nozawa ( drums ), and Toyo ( synthesizer ), but Kay and Toyo soon left. 

Their major debut was on August 25, 1982, when they released the album ZELDA.

All past Members:
Sachiho Kojima (December 26, 1958- ) -Base , Leader
Known as "Chiho".
Sayoko Takahashi (October 10, 1964- ) -Vocals
Yoko Suzuki- Guitar
Fukie Ishihara (December 23, 1960 -)-Guitar, graduated from Hosei University
Naomi Motomura -Guitar
Currently working as an electric solo guitarist. Released a solo album "whole" in 2013. He has performed live both domestically and internationally.
Kuniko Nozawa - Drums
Known as "Maru".
Ako Ozawa (February 16, 1963- ) --Drums, dropped out of the Faculty of Science , Japan Women's University
Kay - Vocals
Toyo - Synthesizer

2. Zelda was a French death metal band that formed in 1991 containing members who would later be in Les Légions Noires (The Black Legions), they previously played in the black metal band Chapel of Ghouls.  They recorded two rehearsal demos before splitting up and formed Belkètre in 1993.

Last known lineup:
-Avaëtre
-Lord Aäkon Këëtrëh <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zelda">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.