There are multiple artists called "Zenith".

1) from Newcastle Upon tyne, England 
2) Metal band from Copenhagen, Denmark 
3) Indie/Rock band from Blackpool, UK 
4) Hard Rock band from Belgrade, Serbia 
5) Hard Rock band from around the Nottingham area, England 
6) Ambient electronica duo of Tetsu Inoue (of Datacide, HAT, Shades of Orion, 2350 Broadway) and Carlos Vivanco.
7) Is the alias of Federico Franchi who produced hardcore/gabber as Zenith in the late 90's.
Aliases:Federico Franchi, New Frontier Y2K, The, Sonar Impulse, Trance Nation, Vana Imago, Zax
8) Hard Rock band from Brazil.
9) DJ from Seattle, Washington on Rainydawg radio.
10) A japanese visual kei band. 
11) A German Heavy Metal band.

1. ZeNith, Newcastle Upon tyne, England
ZeNith are a three man band from Newcastle Upon tyne in England. Although they never recorded an official studio album, they did release 2 EPs. The first "No Liez" was a great success in the local community. The band split up in early 2006 when drummer Ross McAdam left to join the Tabloids and later to join El Bistro. The singer/guitarist Joe Moody went on to focus on solo projects and the bassist Lee Hutchinson is now part of the metal group Bekon.

They are noted highly for the song 'Aspire To Inspire' which is due to appear in a film about ambitions. Other notable contributors to the film include Sting (from the Police) and Ant & Dec.


2. Zenith, Metal band from Copenhagen, Denmark
In October 1999 Oliver, Kore and Jay founded the Copenhagen based band Zenith.
The band set out to play a new kind of metal combining different styles in the metal genre.
The song writing and arrangement are focused on giving the most powerful expression. When mixing power, melodic and brutal metal, every piece in a song becomes unique and contributes to making every song multi-layered.
The lyrics are written with the purpose to reflect on the complexity of modern society today. 


3. Zenith, Indie/Rock band from Blackpool, UK
In March 2002 Douglas Arundel [Vocals, Rhythm Guitar], Jamie (Jay) Rogowicz [Drums], Adrian Hogg [Lead Guitarist] and Peter O'Toole [bass player] founded the Indie/Rock band Zenith in Blackpool, UK. After their first gig at the famous West Coast Rock Cafe, Blackpool, they decided a sound was missing, keyboards. Gavin Wood [Keyboards/Backing Vocals], a former band member of Peter O Toole's previous band, filled that role.

Now as a five piece band, they went on to gain huge popularity in the Blackpool area and made their debut EP Dark Fire. In December 2002 they entered the North West Battle Of The Bands held by Yates Pub Chain. They won their heats and up in the semi-finals. In January 2003 Jay left the band after disagreements and formed his own band Qube. Steven Deveney took over the role of Drummer. Now playing a mixture of original material and covers from the likes of Jimi Hendrix, James, Turin Brakes, Stiltskin, they became a regular feature on many venue lineups like Jenx, The Queens, West Coast Rock Cafe to name a few.

In July 2003 the band fell apart after Doug was transferred to Newcastle with his day job. However the band reformed in September 2003 with the original line up, (Jay returned to the drums) and the band had a whole new set of material and songs to show.


In May 2004 Gavin resigned from the band as the band was relocating to Leeds and his work commitments could not fesibly justify the move. Peter also left feeling the strain of his University degree and the band. Jane Lloyd [Keyboards/Backing Vocals] took over Gavin's position and Matt Harris [Bass Player] took over Pete's position and moved with the band to Leeds.  During their stay in Leeds they played many gigs including the UK battle of the bands and won their place in the Final held at the world-renowned Mean Fiddler club in London. 

However, during the following months Zenith found it hard living with each other and eventually Doug, Jay and Jane moved back to St Annes/Blackpool in August 2005. Matt stayed in Leeds and Adrian relocated to Huddersfield to his new Uni but both of them travelled back to Blackpool regularly for practices and gigs whilst working on their second recording: a full album called Into The Fire.

Gavin was asked back into the band in September 2005 and joined Jane on the keyboards and backing vocals. He returned with a host of new songs that he had been co-writing with Doug. The band played many more sell-out gigs around Blackpool before the band finished in July 2006.

In September 2006 Zenith did a one-off gig supporting the signed band A Cult Called Karriana at Beat Nightclub, Blackpool, before the disbandment of the band in favour of newer musical projects. 


4. Zenith, Hard Rock band from Belgrade, Serbia
Zenith is hard rock band from Belgrade. It started out in the spring of 1999 when friends, Brace (vocal and guitar) and Jake (guitar), decided to form the band.
Name itself came as, more or less, some kind of a vision or ideal towards which the band should always work.
Although predominantly hard rock and heavy metal, Zenith has very strong influences from both grunge (notably Alice in Chains) and gothic.
Along with music, lyrics also tend to show no-nonsence attitude in songs and give this band a hard rock edge.
It is however in slower and moodier songs that heavy blues or sometimes even baroque elements come through.
Lyrics vary from pure punk-like rebelious themes all the way to introspective thoughts showed in more metaphorical and allusive manner, sometimes almost violent and sometimes beautiful.

Zenith is:
Brace Zenith - Vocals
Jake O'Bayne - Guitar
Milosh Milutinovich - Guitar
Dule G - Bass
Stefan Lubarda - Drums

More info and songs can be found on Zenith's official web page.


5. Zenith, Hard Rock band from around the Nottingham area, England
Zenith are a five-piece hard rock band from around the Nottingham area, England.  To date they have released two limited-edition demo EPs, and their debut album 'Open Your Eyes, it's Dead' in Autumn 2007.

Zenith are:

Ben - Lead vocals
Brad - Rhythm guitar
Callum - Bass, backing vocals
Daps - drums
Marin - Lead guitar, backing vocals


6. Zenith, Ambient Electronica
Zenith is the name taken up by Tetsu Inoue and Carlos Vivanco for their collaborative progressive ambient project. Their eponymous record was released on Pete Namlook's Fax +49-69/450464 label in 1994. Their track Electro Dreams also appeared on two Fax-label compilations.

8. Zenith, Brazilian Hard Rock band
Zenith was a band formed at Mogi Guaçu, Brazil. They only released an eponymous album in 1988 before disbanding.

Band members:
Rogério - Lead vocals
Dé - Guitars
Taná - Bass
Miltão - Drums
Zuza - Keyboards

9. Zenith, DJ name for dubstep, idm, downtempo, ambient, house, hip hop DJ Kimberley Dietemann from Seattle, Washington. More  can be found on DJ Zenith's webpage.

 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zenith">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.