Zero Tolerance is a name used by more than one artist/group.

1) Zero Tolerance (aka Cian McCann) is arguably the brightest rising star coming out of the Dublin Drum & Bass scene. Since 2000 his production has been released on such major Drum & Bass labels as C.I.A., Signature, Subtitles, Liquid V, Hospital, Commercial Suicide, Reinforced, Innerground and Bassbin, amongst others. Cian's influences range from the early 90s conscious hip-hop sounds of Pete Rock, DJ Premier and A Tribe Called Quest to UK trip hop artists and labels such as Mo' Wax, Ninja Tune and Massive Attack. Also marked on his musical blueprint were 70s soul and funk, blue note jazz and early hardcore rave. Jungle made its way to his ear in 1995 at Dublin's now famous Bassbin night. Fast forward to 1998, Cian was on the decks for his first gig supporting Drum & Bass giant Ed Rush. From that point on, Zero Tolerance became a resident at Bassbin and continued to evolve his much respected style. His first chance to release some music to the world came via Bassbin (Volumes 1, 2 & 3) along with 4Hero's Reinforced '2nd Wave' which also gave debuts to current Drum & Bass stars like Breakage. Following that he received support from the likes of Fabio, Calibre, Marcus Intalex, Klute, Total Science, Flight, Storm, Bailey, Randall and a host of the scene's biggest players. In the years since his debut, Cian has had a steady, if not highly prolific out put on quality Drum & Bass labels across the spectrum. 2007 however, saw a breakthrough with two releases in particular getting massive support worldwide: 'Refusal' feat. Steo released on A.I.'s Integral label and the monstrous 'Waterfall' feat. Calibre on Signature. Since relocating to London in 2006 things have gotten very busy at Zero Tolerance! Along with his Debut artist LP for Total Science's C.I.A. imprint (feat. Bailey, Break, Steo, Alix Perez & MC Conrad), Zero Tolerance also released a massive remix of legend Dillinja and his 1994 Philly Blunt Classic 'Sky' for V Recordings. He also released his 2nd album 'Cheap Shots' on C.I.A. Recordings in 2008 to much acclaim.

2) A hardcore band from Buffalo, NY. They released a 7" called Bad Blood and then the Fuel the Fire promo tape which was eventually released as a 7" by Reaper Records in 2010.

3) The Swedish death/thrash metal act Zero Tolerance arose from the ashes of Krämatorium, a humourous thrash metal band with Swedish lyrics. After releasing a few demos the band decided to take a more serious approach. Thus, Zero Tolerance was born. Now, the band writes their lyrics in English and lyrical themes often center around societal issues. The first demo under the new name was released in September of 2006 and is called “Prime Time Mind Surgery”. It is a mix of old school thrash and death metal. On the title track vocalist and friend, Björn “Speed” Strid from Soilwork, appears as guest vocalist. On the horizon for 2007, a full length album is in the making. The band members are Thomas Ernemyr (vocals), Oscar Persson (guitar), Tony Eriksson (guitar), Evil (bass) and Tommyknocker (drums).

4) A thrash/speed metal band from the US.

5) A French indus/thrash band formed by Jean-Marc Tristani and Fred Duval from cult death/thrash band Massacra. They released their unique album, Ero For All, in 1996. Fred Duval died in june 1997.

6) An American Gangsta Ass Rap Group From Lawrenceville Georgia. 

7) A RAC/Oi! band from Germany. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zero+Tolerance">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.