Zero Illusions was formed in Gothenburg, Sweden in the summer of 2004. It was the inevitable step when the hard rock band Pain and Passion, by that time consisting of singer Björn Asking, bass player Hans Johansson and drummer André Holmqvist was looking for a new sound and a new guitar player. When axe man Janne Lüthje showed up at the audition with his 7-stringed Jackson it all made perfect sense.. 

The combination of four band members listening and inspired by different bands, and the fact that all music of Zero Illusions is composed together at the rehearsal spot, opens up for an interesting result. Zero Illusions is influenced and inspired by thrash/metal/industrial bands like Nevermore and Rammstein via the more progressive metal band Pagans Mind. Zero Illusions mixture of heavy guitars and high pitching vocals are best experienced live! The band connects heavy metal parts to lyrics dealing with problems and feelings associated with todays society. 

Their first demo contains three songs and was recorded during the fall of 2004 in Jonsered Recording Studio. Hans decided to leave the band due to personal reasons in late fall 2005. We all wish him the best of luck. Mikael Ljunggren replaced Hans but played only three months with the band. Bass magician Tomas Reinerson, whose band résumé would make up three A4-pages, nailed the vacant position in the band and blew everybody away with his playing technique and warm personality. 

The bands evolution since start has been extraordinary with highly acclaimed live gigs. Amongst other performances: Metal Town (Gothenburg), Rockhimlen (Helsingborg) and Sweden Rock Festival 2007, can be mentioned. Zero Illusions released, in mid-spring 2007, the official debut CD "Prologue to Eternity" including the release of the video "Face of the Fortune" which later was featured as "video of the week" at a Swedish television channel. 

Zero Illusions is now up for the next chapter! 
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zero+Illusions">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.