There is more than one artist with this name:

1) Zeus - (Kamil Rutkowski, born December 18, 1983) - Polish rapper and music producer from Łódź. Active since 1998, he started in groups BHZ and Liryczna Kravmaga. Zeus has collaborated with other artists, including Aro, Dior, Dusza, Fatum, Kaczy, Koncept, O.S.T.R., Pesante, PHHR, PMM, Projektanci, Uśpione Miasto, Vademecum. He also appeared on O.S.T.R.'s albums - "7" ("Więcej decybeli by zagłuszyć...", as a rapper and co-producer) and "HollyŁódź" ("Reprezentuj", with Kochan).
http://www.myspace.com/zeus94bpm

2) Zeus is a Toronto-based Canadian indie rock band, signed to the record label Arts & Crafts, whose members include Rob Drake, Carlin Nicholson, Mike O'Brien, and Neil Quin. In addition to recording and performing the music of Zeus, the band also serves as the backing band for Canadian musician Jason Collett. Their debut EP, Sounds Like Zeus, was released by Arts & Crafts in June 2009, and includes a cover of the Genesis song "That's All". The band's debut album, Say Us, was released February 23, 2010. A vinyl LP was released two weeks ahead of the CD release. "Say Us" was included on the 2010 Polaris Music Prize Long List, but failed to advance to the Short List. Check: MySpace

3) ZEUS was founded in 2003 by singer/actor/presenter/comedian Jeroen van Koningsbrugge, drummer Paul Jansen and guitarist Roy Jansen. Soon after, bass player Bob Gerritsen completed the band. The objective was clear and simple: to make heavy, groovy rock music the way it was meant since 1969. Influenced by Black Label Society, Black Sabbath, Led Zeppelin, Karma To Burn, Transport League, Goatsnake and the wave of nineties grunge and stoner, ZEUS developed their sound. Official website:  http://www.zeusrock.com/ 

4) Zeus is a Death Metal / Grindcore band from Charlotte North Carloina consisting of their vocalist Brennon, Drummer Richard, Bassist Deucy, and two guitarists Adam and Sam. All of which are also in the  band Dirty South Revolutionaries except for Brennon. LISTEN TO ZEUS! www.myspace.com/musicofzeus

5) Zeus is a new DJ and producer at Institubes. He works together with Para One

6) Black/Death Metal band from England released several demos including Fear (1997) and Fragments of a Boken Mind (2002)

MySpace page = http://www.myspace.com/zeusofficial

7)  Zeus was a 4 dimensional multiple personality consisting of: Rory Connor, Michael Woodward, Jesse Reed and Liam Hiatt
InfluencesDossing, tossing and flossing
Sounds LikeFour guys playing for playing's sake, striving to create some really great sounds and hopefully some egoless improvisation!

8) Zeus is a rock band from Czech Republic from Higlands.

9) Zeus was a Canadian based rock band formed in Vancouver, 2003  consisting of Derek Howard, John Rogers, Scott Howard and Matt Rogers.

10) Zeus was a Glam Rock/Power Pop Band from Austin.

The Aielli brothers were at the core of Austin’s 1970’s Glam Rock group Zeus, which released a string of recordings from notable producers whose collective credits include Kiss, Queen, Joan Jett, and more. 
With A-list management from Tim Neese (Christopher Cross), then Peter Leeds (Blondie), Zeus and enjoyed regional airplay before entering the Australian airwaves with Sidney’s Fable Label. Always on the front line of trends, their sound shifted with the times, featuring more synths and bubble-gum motifs with the onslaught of 80’s Power Pop. 

 12) Zeus is a goa/psytrance producer. Russian based project "Zeus" presented his debut album on Kissthesound Records. Zeus implements new music technologies into classic trend of Goa Trance.

 13) Zeus! is a  is an Italian post-hardcore/math rock, supergroup duo featuring bassist Luca Cavina and drummer Paolo Mongardi. Founded in Imola in 2010 they released 3 albums: Zeus! (2010), Opera (2013), Motomonotono (2015) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zeus">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.