1. Zhora is a solo artist from Tbilisi, Georgia
2. Zhora is an act comprised of former members of Dallas band ishi, including Taylor Rea and Rob Bastien. 
3. zhOra are a progressive metal band, formed in 2011 and from Tipperary in Ireland. 
http://zhora1.bandcamp.com/
4. Zhora are a drone/ambient project featuring Tom Begley of Bossk, formed in 2018.
https://zhoranoise.bandcamp.com/

Formed in 2011, by vocal and instrumentalist Taylor Rea, Zhora was introduced to North Texas audiences as a pop-electronic duo working in Dallas, Texas. By 2012, the group’s high-energy shows and genre bending aesthetics had garnered them a Dallas Observer Music Award nomination and a slew of memorable shows as regional music fans started to take notice of Rea’s latest project. Zhora’s reputation for high-energy performances, striking visual imagery and addictive melodies gave Dallas fans thirsty for a fresh pop voice a new and exciting flavor to take in. 
Forming Zhora’s magnetic personality and backing vocalist Rea are drummer, Ross Martinez. Also bringing his talents to the stage is Multi-Instrumentalist/Producer Adam Pickrell. Together they have taken Zhora into new and exciting places sonically as they work to complete their first full length album now. Shows vary in lineup from one to the other giving each performance an array color and newness.

Fans of Zhora’s first EP will recognize many of the same influences in their dance-friendly pop but Rea’s adventurous performance sensibilities are clearly guiding them into a progressive new sound. 

First new single, “Lights” cuts with a harder edge while maintaining a clear sense of melody and depth. Collaborative efforts with Dallas producer Adam Pickrell and singer/songwriter Tiger Darrow are generating provoking new horizons for Zhora and puts Rea in the light Dallas audiences have been craving since her first introduction. 

Zhora on Facebook.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zhora">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.