Zohra Aïssaoui, known as Dihya (ⴷⵉⵁⵢⴰ), (born in 1950 in Taghit (T'Kout), Batna, Algeria) is an Algerian singer of Chaoui music.
Zohra moved to France in 1958 at the age of eight, where begins to sing and play the guitar in secret at her uncle's house.  In Paris, she enrolled at the "Conservatoire Paul-Beusher"  In the 1970s, Zohra took part in radio singing competitions which she won several times, most often with songs by Fairuz, Dalida or even Enrico Macias.  She also participates in the french Classical Singing Festival where she won prizes.

 Then, she went to Bel Canto in Italy where she sang in Greek in the country of Homer.  It was a priest who wrote her first song "Petit Lilas Blanc".  Later, she became a classical singing teacher at the University of Nanterre where she directed a choir.  With Sheila, Dihya also obtains a job which allows her to open up new horizons for her and in particular to land a contract with the German label "Polydor" at the end of the 1970s. She puts the label on trial for having stolen her copyrights, she loses  trial after 3 years.  
After the release of her 45 tour produced by Polydor, she took the name of Dihya, the name of the Queen of the Aurès.
In 1979, she left for Algeria where she met her future husband, Messaoud Nedjahi, In 1980, her first album was called Yuguerten (Jugurtha), the album was recorded in Algeria and sold without copyright for a second time.
In 1981, her husband, Messaoud Nedjahi, who composed and arranged some of her songs, participated in the Berber Spring protests in Algeria and was threatened with death.  The couple fled to France, waiting for calm to return to Algeria.  
In 1982, Dihya released her second album, titled  Usin-d usin-d!   which means "Beginning" in Chaoui.  Then she produced another album. 
 In 1985 appeared his last album entitled  Dzaïr essa .  
She published in 2006 a book whose title is "L'Aurès dewitch" published by the French publishing house "Publibook".

 On December 17, 2014, she was welcomed at Batna- "Mostepha Ben Boulaid" Airport by the population of the Aurès, who had come in large numbers, after 33 years of absence.  She was honored first at the headquarters of the town of "Batna", then during the  Amazigh 
 theater festival in the presence of several artists from the Aurès and Auressian associations.  She was also invited to Khenchela, before leaving for France.

 She was honored by the National Youth Coordination of "Oued El Ma", the prize was given to her by the singer  Aïssa Brahimi , January 20, 2015 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zohra">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.