There are more than one artist with this name:

1) A rap band formed in 2014 from the city of Gandia in the province of Valencia, Spain. They sing in Valencian (a dialect of Catalan language) and the songs have political lyrics. They are known for incorporating different genres and instruments in the background music. Their music can also be classified under the genres of hip-hop, rock ska and electronics as well as rap. The band was formed by  Panxo (Toni Sánchez), former member of Orxata Sound System and Sophy Zoo. As of 2017, they have 2 albums: "Tempestes vénen del sud" ("Storms come from the south") is their first album which includes the hit song "Estiu" which means summer in Catalan. Though they are relatively new in the music scene, they have already had considerable success. "Raval" is their second work, including sinlges "el cap per avall" ("upside down") and "la mestra".

2) An Indonesian experimental rock band based in Jogjakarta. 
    Download their discography at http://zoo-indonesia.blogspot.com/p/diskografi.html

3) A french jazz-rock band (end of 60's) 

    Bass – Michel Hervé
    Drums – Christian Devaux
    Guitar – Michel Bonnecarrere, Pierre Fanen
    Organ [Hammond] – André Hervé
    Trumpet – Tony Canal
    Violin, Tenor Saxophone – Daniel Carlet, Michel Ripoche
    Vocals – Joel Dayde


Initially to be called La Question, this French band was created in April 1969 during the studio sessions of their eponymous album.


4) A Czech band playing rythmic rock and celtic mix of music. They were famous mainly for their single Čas sluhů (The Time of Servants) in 1990. Members:
     Jan Kalousek - vocal, guitar
     Jiří Chlumecký - vocal, percusions
     Jan Kolář - vocal, keyboard, oboe
     Zdeněk Plášek - guitar
     Jiří Veselý - bass guitar
     Vladan Malinjak - violin

5) A short lived Irish boyband who had a few top 10 hits and toured with Brian McFadden before splitting up.

6) A pop-rock band from northern Norway who achieved national success during the late 70s and early 80s, particulary with their singles "Vent, ikkje legg på" (Wait, Don't Hang Up) and "Evig ung" (Forever Young). The band broke up in 1983. Frontman and songwriter Ketil Stokkan then embarked on a solo career and later represented Norway in the Eurovision Song Contest twice, while drummer Rudi Høynes and keyboard player Sverri Dahl formed the band Banana Airlines. The band reunited in 1999, and have since performed locally in Nordland and Troms, and also other places in Norway.

7) A Spanish alternative rock band and "Música del descontento", published in 2005, was their first release. They come from a hardcore background in Nuevenoventaicinco.

8) A 60's greek garage pop group.

9) A popular j-pop group from the early 1990's with the hit song "Choo Choo Train". After disbanding in 1996, a former member, Hiroyuki Igarashi, started a band called J-Soul Brothers, which was later renamed to EXILE, which in turn re-made the song Choo Choo Train and quickly became its biggest hit. In 1993 British dance music duo Band of Gypsies and singer Miriam Stockley released an album of cover versions of ZOO songs called Song of ZOO Meets House Style.

10) A Canadian band featured on "Untapped Volume 1" (available as a free CD and online) produced by Calgary-based Big Rock Brewery.

11) A Dutch progressive rock band

12) A 60's California Based Group: Zoo managed to produce only a single album during their short career.

Formed in 1968 by Murphy ‘Chocolate Moose’ Carfagna, the band also featured Mike Flicker on drums and Howard Leese on lead guitar both of whom went on to join Heart, Leese as guitarist and Flicker as the band’s producer.

Chocolate Moose was released in 1968 on Ed Cobb’s Sunburst label (Sunburst 7500) and is far more than just a rock album. Its strong punk and psychedelic tendencies, coupled with a smattering of R’n’B, propel the album with an energetic vitality that is underpinned by Leese’s searing guitar.

The album, rare at the time, has now become a major collectors item. 

13) A Polish Grunge Band

14) A Dutch pop band led by Dolf Jansen

15) Two croatian rapper Brka & Neno from Vinkovci.....

16) A pop-rock band based in Manila in the Philippines. They were signed to Universal's MCA Music division and recorded their debut album "Zoology" to modest local success. They are mostly known internationally for being the band fronted by singer Arnel Pineda prior to his hiring by American arena rock act Journey. Their songs are performed in a mixture of Tagalog and English.

17) A Brazilian EDM/Trance Female Singer <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zoo">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.