There are 4 artists named Zora:

1.  Zora is an American independent alternative / electro-acoustic music duo from Cleveland, formed in 2012. The duo consists of Zora (vocals, keyboards, production, songwriting), and Xhausen (synthesizer, production). Together, they have just released their debut full-length album, "Metamorphosis," on December 13th, 2013. Influenced by the likes of Tori Amos, Björk, and Nine Inch Nails, this duo’s music can be described as ethereal, yet edgy; while their debut album "Metamorphosis" offers a unique fusion of electronic, avant-garde and classic orchestral sounds married to haunting vocals and thought-provoking lyrics. More information can be found at www.zoramusic.com 

2. Zora is the music project created by multi-instrumentalist Larry Hansen from Wasilla, Alaska, USA. Hansen has been creating music consistently for the past three years, and has created music under several different aliases and recording projects. He has collaborated on many group efforts, including Caves of Glass and DL/LH, both of which have upcoming music in the works. You can listen to and download this EP for free, along with the rest of Hansen's selected discography at zoramusic.bandcamp.com

3. A French singer who's disc is "Bout de Terre". 

4. Zora is a brutal death metal band screaming its extreme hate from Southern Italy - Calabria. The band is made by two members from Glacial Fear (www.glacialfear.it - www.myspace.com/glacialfear ) P. Pascale (vocal and guitar) and Tat0 (bass) and by A. Di Meco (drums). Zora recorded its first cd-demo in Feb 2004, "Dismembered Human Race"; it's a powerful mix of brutal hate and extreme rebellion against everything and everyone suffocating our planet... this work is composed by 5 songs, mixed by G.luka Molè (Sound Farm Studio - Catanzaro - Italy). Zora screams its extreme message during its concerts without compromises, and writes more and more lyrics every day, taking its inspiration from the huge need of vent characterizing this band. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zora">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.