The band named Zord was formed in October 2000. Up to that time the members had acted in several local (Miskolc, North Hungary) hordes, among others in the band called Atomic that released two albums in the mid ‘90s with massive support of its Swiss management.

The name Zord is a Hungarian word that means “austere” or “bleak” in English. In the Hungarian rock and metal scene it is trendy to write and sing songs with Hungarian lyrics under English band names, but these four guys often goes against the stream so they set out on an inverse way. The purpose was to teach foreign rockers one single Hungarian word, but write their lyrics in English, so wherever they go, their thoughts, Zord songs can be understood easily. Responds from foreign audiences they played for seem to prove the band is on the right way.

Zord’s music tempts to a world of metal with heavy guitar riffs with some progressive elements. The main characters of their songs are determined by powerful chords, dynamic but sometimes twisted rhythms, rough vocals with blazing backing vocals and a bit of pale psychedelic feeling.

In 2002 the very first release of the band came out, one of their first songs titled “The Ghost” got on the live split CD “Rock Without Borders”. The entire album was recorded in Slovakia and Hungary during the joint tour with Remorse (H), Friday (SK) and Flashback (H).

After heavy club touring in 2005 Zord recorded their promotional stuff titled “Little Disasters” containing six devastating metal tracks. In the meantime additional songs were born in their underground rehearsal cell, so the entire material of the debut Zord album has been completed. Later on the band has entered the studio to record the first album of the quartet...

Altogether eleven songs have been recorded. Meanwhile the band was requested by the American Football team called Szolnok Soldiers to compose and record their hymn, so after finishing the album mixing procedure, Zord entered the studio (Denever Studio – Szolnok) again on 20th March, 2006, and recorded the song entitled “The Glory Rush (Soldiers of Football)”. The result can be downloaded from the “Downloads” section of this site. In summer of 2006 the band appeared among others on the stages of Hegyalja Festival and Sziget Festival.

In the beginning of 2007 the band had only local club gigs, and than Zord played on several summer festivals, but first of all they were focusing on the finishing touches to the Disasters Grind album cover. In August preliminary actions for the video of the song titled “The Ghost” were carried out.

From September the band was on the road again, and played about ten venues until the end of the year. The debut album of the band entitled "Disasters Grind" was released in November, 2007! (Nail Records) The album gained positive reviews from the Hungarian music press (e.g. Rockinform magazine December 2007 issue, HammerWorld magazine February 2008 issue), domestic (www.kronosmortus.hu, www.passzio.hu, www.viharock.hu) and foreign webzines like www.heathenharvest.com (USA) www.rockpolis-media.com (RO), and responses from fans are also promising…

The debut album release concert was held on 22nd November, 2007 in Rockwell Club (University of Miskolc, Campuss). The guest band named Drastic Means arrived from Upper Hungary (today Slovakia) and blasted the stage. Following their gig the world premiere of the video filmed for the song “The Ghost” took place. The album was a result of long term efforts, so the members of Zord did the celebration unstintingly. That evening a couple of former band members and friend musicians also appeared on stage… (Concert review Rockinform magazine February 2008 issue)

In February 2008 the band hit the road in Hungary again, but appeared in Slovakia (Sáhy) for a gig on Drastic Fest as well, and then as an opening event of the festival season starting in late spring Zord played on Dark River Rock Fest in Transylvania. The next show was on “Day Zero” on the JMB Rock Fest in June, where the quartet played on Main Stage. Afterwards several festival shows (Rotor Rock Camp, Sz.A.R. Festival, Saigon International Rock Camp, ETER Festival) came, and the Beach Rock Party was the closing event of Zord’s summer festival season in 2008.
 
On 4th November, 2008 ‘272 Records released their 12th compilation record from their Kill City Series called “Kill City Twelve”, and the Hungarian Metal Scene is represented on the album by the song from Zord’s “Disasters Grind” album entitled “The Ghost”.

At present the band is focusing on writing the new songs for the second Zord album about to be released in 2009. Recently the guys have moved to their rehearsal room and are thundering the new songs now.  In late spring Zord is going to enter the studio to record about a dozen of brand new metal blasts… 

Official site: www.zord.hu <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zord">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.