Zuhatag was founded in 1996 in Fegyvernek, a small city in Hungary close to Szolnok.

The members are:
Hornyák Öcsi - bass, vocals
Kovács Szabolcs - guitars
Vásárhelyi Peti - drums

This is the original formation of the band, it was never changed!

In the beginning the band played famous songs from different bands in small pubs. In 1997 they have recorded five own songs and published it on MC, with the title 5231. They have received good feedback from the press nad They went on a tour with the band called MOOD. They have participated in some talant contests. In Jászberény and Pásztó they have taken the first place and in Szolnok the second place in 1998. They have recorded their new album, EZERREL in 1999. It included eight new songs. In 2000 they had been touring with the band, BOMBER. In the meantime they had been supporting also TANKCSAPDA and made a small own tour as well. They have played before BLIND GUARDIAN in the E-Klub in Budapest.

In 2001 they have recorded the MINDENTFELŐRLŐ album. It is including ten new songs. They have made a videoclip for the Lényeg song that was shown on the ATV tv channel. They have performed their first own show in the Ráday klub, Budapest.

In 2002 they got in the final of the Zebra club club band contest. With this result they got the chance to play on the Hegyalja and ZED festivals. In march they were the support band for TANKCSAPDA and FRESHFABRIK in Törökszentmiklós. They have made a small club tour and had a concert with RÉMEMBER as well. They played before LORD and KARTHAGO in Szolnok on a big rock festival. In the summer they had shows on the Hegyalja and ZED festival and they played on a few bikers festival. They have published the MINDENTFELÖRLŐ album by themselves. The CD was ready in December and was distributed by record company of the hungarian Metal Hammer magazin. They made the album premier in the Ráday klub in Budapest. On the FIX television they have performed a live show.

In the spring of 2003 they have made a club tour and they played before the LORD as well in Kaposvár. In march an interview was published in the Metal Hammer magazin with the band . They made a video clip for the "Adj erőt" song but unfortunatelly it was never shown on tv. They had an interview on the FIX tv RockFan program and the videoclip of the "Lényeg" song was shown. In the summer they have played on the WANTED and HEGYALJA festivals and for the first time on the EFOTT (big festival for university students in Hungary). They made a videoclip for the "Biztos, hogy az Ördög" song that was shown on the hungarian VIVA television for the first time. New songs were written during the whole year and they played them on concerts as well. In the autumn they played two times on the tour of TANKCSAPDA nad in the Ráday klub they supported LORD. They had shows in new cities like Pécs and Debrecen. In november an interview was made with them on the FIX tv's RockFan program and also the new videoclip was shown.

In the beginning of 2004 they had three gigs with TANKCSAPDA in Kunszentmárton, Kisújszállás and Dunaújváros. In the summer they played on the Hegyalja, Wanted festivals and also Mindszent on the Rock festival. They have started the recording of the new album called Egyetlen.The recording was done in the Denevér studio in Szolnok.

In 2005 they have finished the first videoclip for the new album's "Jöjjön" song. The clip was shown on the VIVA television. They plan two other videos for this album for the "Ami éltet" and the "Egyetlen" songs. The CD will contain a multimedia section as well with videos, mp3s from the previous albums and pictures. They haven't found a record company for the new album, so they are collecting money and they will publish it on their own. In their home town they had started a Rock club to have opportunity for young talented bands to show themselves in public.

In 2006 they have started their new webpage first time in english as well. They have continuosly concerts and they still collect money for the new album. They plan to release it in the end of summer. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zuhatag">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.