Zyklon was a Norwegian Blackened death metal (with industrial overtones) band formed in 1998 in Notodden, Norway by members of Norwegian black metal band Emperor (Samoth and Trym), eventually settling as a four-piece with members of Myrkskog (Secthdamon and Destructhor) as well. The band was created in order to make up for the fact that Emperor was no longer playing live at the time.

Zyklon is, according to Samoth, a play on the word "cyclone" and no relation to the nerve agent Zyklon B used by the Nazis. Despite Samoth being in a previous project called Zyklon-B along with Emperor member, Ihsahn, among others, the two bands are separate bands and played a different style of Metal.

All of the band's lyrics are written by ex-Emperor drummer Faust . Most of the lyrics revolve around themes like anti-religion, misanthropy, and philosophy.

Zyklon's debut album, entitled World ov Worms, was quite similar to that of Destructhor's band Myrkskog's album Deathmachine. The album is made up of extremely fast riffing and blast beats aided by the vocals of Daemon (of Limbonic Art). However, after this release, Zyklon changed. Myrkskog drummer (and later Emperor live bassist) Secthdamon joined and handled vocals and bass. 

Zyklon's second album, Aeon, exposed the band to more media attention. The production is much clearer and music videos were made for two tracks, Core Solution and Psyklon Aeon.

The band's third effort, Disintegrate, was released on May 15, 2006 to great critical acclaim. It was recorded in November - December 2005 at the "Akkerhaugen Lydstudio", in Norway. 

Samoth finally announced the  split-up of the band on January 7, 2010.

Last line-up:
* Secthdamon - Vocals, Bass - (Myrkskog, Odium, Emperor (Live Bass))
* Samoth - Guitar - (Emperor, Zyklon-B, ex-Arcturus, ex-Satyricon (Session bass), ex-Gorgoroth (Session bass), ex-Thou Shalt Suffer, ex-Burzum (Session), ex-Ildjarn (session), Scum)
* Destructhor - Guitar - (Myrkskog)
* Trym - Drums - (Emperor, ex-Enslaved, ex-Imperium, ex-Tartaros, Shadow Season, Paganize)

* Faust - Lyrics - (ex-Emperor, ex-Thorns/Stigma Diabolicum, Aborym, Scum, ex-Impostor/Death Fuck, Blood Tsunami)

Former members:
* Daemon - Vocals on World ov Worms - (Limbonic Art, Sarcoma Inc.)
* Cosmocrator - Live Bass - (Mindgrinder, Source of Tide, ex-Windir (session clean vocals), Scum)

Discography:

Studio releases:
2001 - World ov Worms
2003 - Aeon
2006 - Disintegrate

Split Releases:
2003 - Zyklon/Red Harvest (7" EP limited to 1000 copies)

DVD's:
2006 - Storm Detonation Live <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/Zyklon">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.