ÄTNA’s music thrives on contrasts. In the duo’s melancholic electro pop, the minimalistic beats of drummer Demian bounce against the intensity of singer Inéz. Some years ago, the two encountered on a 90s party of Dresden’s music academy and exchanged views on their common heroes: Enya, Thom Yorke and Prodigy. Thereupon, they formed a band which shrinked to its essential parts soon.

Since then, ÄTNA have worked as a duo together with Moses Schneider who has recently helped AnnenMayKantereit to their success. With him, they find new strength. ÄTNA’s songs are gentle pop hymns in which, nevertheless, strident emotions resonate. Their first “ÄTNA”-EP (ÄTNA) caused quite an enthusiasm with critics and heaved the duo onto stages from Rotterdam to Istanbul. Hard to imagine that there will be festivals next year which do without ÄTNA’s electrifying show.

Among Germany’s most exciting newcomers, ÄTNA have already played high profile festivals at home and abroad, and have toured Russia, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Estonia. In addition, they’ve performed in cities as diverse as Istanbul and London, and that’s not to mention their slot at the Montreux Jazz Festival this year. For a German band, this is quite something.
Like Fever Ray meeting Grimes in London's grandiose Royal Opera House, ÄTNA focus their shows around piano, with analogue effects mixed in directly, loops, effects and delays played live, and nothing automated at all. Moreover, rather than using Autotune to straighten out singer Inéz’ pitch, any vocal treatments only add depth to her striking voice.
Employing elements of dramatically different movements and genres, Inéz and Demian - a creative partnership of equals – create an avant-garde ‘work of art’ in the very best sense of the phrase. With fashion and design integrated into their music, ÄTNA wear monochrome stage costumes and deliver stunning videos, something they succinctly refer to as "making their own world". Montreux Jazz Festival or Coachella? ÄTNA’s minds are made up: both. And they’ve already played Montreux. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/%C3%84tna">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.