Комсомольск (Komsomolsk) is a Russian  indie group founded in 2017 in Moscow. Currently it consists of four musicians. In ironic lyrics, the band combines timeless themes with signs of the present, putting lines on the major guitar pop music. In 2020, the quartet released their first full-length album "Ближний Свет" (Near Light), which differs from previous releases in greater emotionality and complexity of sound.

The history of the Komsomolsk group began with the acquaintance of Daria Deryugina, Ivan Ryabov and Arina Andreeva in 2015, long before the release of the first joint works. A few months later, Daria suggested that Ivan and Arina create a Russian-speaking musical group, and they agreed. The participants chose the name intuitively - the choice fell on the "Komsomolsk" proposed by Ivan Ryabov. A little later, Ilya Lopatin joined the band as a drummer. With this composition in 2016, the group began rehearsals.

The band released their debut mini-album "Комсомольск-1" (Komsomolsk-1) in 2017. The presentation of the mini-album took place on June 21, 2017 at a joint concert with the group "Любовь и Роботы" (Love and Robots). From the first performance, multi-colored wigs of girls became an invariable element of the group's stage image. One of the reasons for the appearance of wigs at concerts was Daria's desire to distinguish between her two projects: the Russian-language Komsomolsk and the English-language "Gin&Milk", founded before the appearance of Komsomolsk. After the first concert in connection with the move to Poland, Ilya Lopatin left the group, and his place was taken by the Voronezh drummer Pavel Kochetov. Immediately after the performance, Komsomolsk began to cooperate with the independent music label "Peter Explorer", on which two more mini-albums were released by the end of 2017: "Касса Свободы" (Kassa Svobody) and "90210".

The fourth mini-album "Дорогие Москвичи" (Dear Muscovites), recorded in the spring of 2018, became a major breakthrough. The release was followed by the filming of the first video "Где мы сейчас?" (Where are we now?), solo concerts in Moscow, performances at the festivals "Дикая Мята" (Wild Mint), Пикник "Афиша" (Picnic "Afisha"), "Motherland", "Антон Тут Рядом" (Anton Tut Ryadom), a performance in the program "Вечерний Ургант" (Evening Urgant). As part of cooperation with "Яндекс.Музыка" (Yandex.Music) a video was filmed for the song "Оркестр" (Orchestra) and the song "Мы ищем человека" (We are looking for a man) was recorded for the "Inhuman Music project", created in collaboration with the "Yandex" neural network. In 2018-2019, the first tour of the Komsomolsk group took place in the cities of Russia and Belarus, a distinctive feature of which was the performance of cover versions of hits of local cult groups at every performance.

In 2019, the fifth mini-album "День Психа" (The Day of the Psycho) was released. The presentation of the work took place on the roof of "Рабочий и Колхозница" (the Worker and Kolkhoz Woman) pavilion and, despite the rain, the concert was played to the end. On December 23, the group published its only video from the release for the song "Чёрный Квадрат" (Black Square).

August 21, 2020 saw the light of the first full-length album of the Komsomolsk group, "Ближний Свет" (Near Light), which includes nine compositions. The work was included in the list of the best albums of 2020 according to the editors of the online editions "Медуза" (Meduza) and "Ридус" (Ridus).

Band:
Daria Deryugina - vocals, guitar
Arina Andreeva - vocals, keyboards
Ivan Ryabov - bass guitar
Pavel Kochetov - drums

Discography:

Mini Albums:
2017 - "Комсомольск-1" (Komsomolsk-1)
2017 - "Касса свободы" (Kassa Svobody)
2017 - "90210"
2018 - "Дорогие москвичи" (Dear Muscovites)
2019 - "День Психа" (The Day of the Psycho)

Studio albums:
2020 - "Ближний свет" (Near Light)

Singles:
2019 - "Паустовский, Бианки и Пришвин" (Paustovsky, Bianki and Prishvin)
2021 - "Скука" (Boredom) <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/%D0%9A%D0%BE%D0%BC%D1%81%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%BE%D0%BB%D1%8C%D1%81%D0%BA">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.