Triada was formed in October 1999, consisting of Jazzz (Fedor, Krasnodar), Rico (Asvatur, Rostov) Nigata (Vladimir, Krasnodar). 

Name of the group has several roots, to the Chinese revolutionary movement, later reborn in the mafia, and an indication of Triple Alliance (in sociology, for example), Agia Triada, translated from Greek .- Holy Trinity. 

In the winter of 1999 with a single disk and a tape deck made the first recording groups. Not a special quality or uniqueness, they did not differ, but in March the group joins Kreso (now known as DJ KeasBeatz), and record demos already under his track, for better equipment. 

Bormann (Krasnodar), Staff (Rostov), Paddington (Krasnodar) in April, too, in the triads, but until 2001, almost nothing but the mass of the joint parties with drinks and cigarettes vykurivaniem netabachnyh not happening. 

In March 2001, the group withdrew Nigata, it shall Dino (Krasnodar) and Mareydo (Krasnodar), which at that time had already been several joint musical projects. In such a composition triad acts only once, at the Adidas Streetball Challenge 2001, the participants hardly communicate with each other until June, when the due diligence Mareydo, Nigata back to the group. Began to work on writing new tracks, the backbone of the group at that time constituted Nigata, Dino and Mareydo. 

Mareydo uvle kaet a number of family and domestic turmoil, the Triad comes Flip (Krasnodar). At the home studio, consisting of a flip Flip Nigata Dino-recorded tracks "My Religion", "What are the stars talking about," an impasse ", which cause grave excitement among connoisseurs of Russian rap. 

12 June 2002 Triad last act of a 3 man. Since then the creative ways Nigativa, Dino and flip odds, in the group are only the first two participants. The whole next year is held in constant rehearsals, writing a new set of tracks, etc. 

In autumn 2003, on its own (at the studio DJ KresBeatz) was recorded and released in the light (using Paddingtona) album antidote, in the number of 10 discs ... In December of that year, Triad and EST are coming to the festival, Rap Music, 27.12.2003 Year Triad signs a contract with the label Karavan Music for 3 years. February 15, antivenin is already replicated on the label, in support of the album shot the video "Dead City", which immediately enters the dense rotation MTV. A year later, Triad removes another clip - "Dejavu", for the song from the new album "Orion", which is on the portal hip-hop.ru on the basis of 2005 receives the prize "Best rap video the year." 

Not stopping there, in June 2006, frontman triad Nigata, publishes the first in the history of Russian rap double solo album "The dew point", raising a wave of interest in the group to a new level. In October 2007, no longer being tied to any label, you let Triad album "August", decorated with his video "Relay", "Madame" and "soft pool. "August" replicated from the largest distributor in Russia, the company Monolith, tour schedule is becoming more and more dense. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/%D0%A2%D1%80%D0%B8%D0%B0%D0%B4%D0%B0">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.