Utah (born Anna Syomina) is a russian pop rock singer. 

Utah was born and has grown in Ekaterinburg in a musical family of the jazz saxophonist and the academic singer. In the childhood went in for sports and studied in game on a flute much though to arrive in Gnesinsky musical school has gone on piano branch. Having studied there three years, the girl has suddenly grown cold to a piano and professionally was engaged in a jazz vocal. But also jazz singer from Utah, despite predicted the big future, has not turned out, because in hands "The Metallica" disk has got to it, and all has changed.
 
In 1999 year with the assistance of Alexander Semenov ("The April March") was the group into which then musicians of groups "Zemfira", "Moscow Groove Institute", "Rondo", "Untouchable" at various times entered is created. Utah itself supervises over all process of record – from the composition of music to data of tools in a final soundtrack.
 
In 2000 year Utah has written down the debut album "Easily and even is graceful", but the present popularity has come only in 2002 when the second album of the composer, the poet and the singer of Utah under the name "Hop and Malt" (Real Records has been presented public). The success of a disk has appeared such impressive that the singer have invited to act at festival "Нашествие-2002". Numerous concerts in the Moscow clubs Later have begun, and to the middle of year the clip on a header composition a plate has been removed.
 
In 2003 edition "Sound track" МК, summing up year, named Utah "one of most-most" in categories "Soloist of year", "the Group of year" and "Top Sexy" among recognised stars of "the first echelon".
 
In the end of May, 2004 the firm грамзаписи "Nikitin" has let out a new album of Utah "Girl". 11 tracks one of which, header, is written under impression of a concert of "Night Snipers" have entered Into an album and is devoted Diana Arbeninoj. Vladimir Shahrin took part In record of other composition "Waited", the duet has turned out unexpectedly very harmonious, and the song has instantly got to all charts.
 <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/+noredirect/%D0%AE%D1%82%D0%B0">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.