Kim Tae-yeon (Hangul: 태연; Japanese: テヨン; born March 9, 1989 in Jeonju, North Jeolla Province, South Korea), most often credited only as Taeyeon, is a South Korean singer. She debuted in 2007 as a member of South Korean girl group Girls' Generation under S.M. Entertainment, and has further participated in its subgroup Girls' Generation-TTS as well as S.M Entertainment's ballad group S.M. the Ballad. As of February 2020, Taeyeon has received 40 various awards including six Golden Disc Awards, five Seoul Music Awards, three Gaon Chart Music Awards, three Melon Music Awards, and three Mnet Asian Music Awards.

Taeyeon officially made her debut as a solo artist in October 2015 with her first extended play, I, which reached number two on South Korea's Gaon Album Chart and has sold well over 100,000 physical copies. The lead single, "I", peaked atop the Gaon Digital Chart and has sold over one million digital copies. Following her debut, she was awarded Best Female Artist at the Mnet Asian Music Awards. 

In February 2016, S.M Entertainment launched a digital music platform called SM Station. The first release for the station was Taeyeon's "Rain", which to this date is SM Station's most commercially successful song. Her following extended play, Why, with two singles "Starlight" featuring R&B singer DEAN and "Why", were released in June 2016. It debuted at #1 on the Gaon Album Chart.

In 2017, Taeyeon released her debut studio album, My Voice, with the singles "Fine", "Make Me Love You", and "11:11" achieving commercial success. The album has sold over 200,000 physical copies. A repackage titled My Voice (Deluxe Edition) was released on April 5, 2017 along with the title track "Make Me Love You".

In December 2017, Taeyeon came back with a special Christmas album titled This Christmas - Winter Is Coming. The title track for the album was "This Christmas" and the album contained seven new songs. Despite being a special album, it debuted at #2 on the Gaon Album Chart and #6 on the Billboard World Albums Chart. 

In June 2018, Taeyeon released her fourth EP, Something New. The EP peaked at number three on the Gaon Album Chart, and at number four on the Billboard World Albums Chart. That same month Taeyeon embarked on a Japan Showcase Tour, exclusively available to members of SM Entertainment's official Japanese fan club. The tour visited Fukuoka, Nagoya, Tokyo and Osaka. Following the success of her sold-out showcase tour, Taeyeon released her debut Japanese single, "Stay", on June 30, 2018. The single is accompanied by a B-side titled "I'm The Greatest".

In March 2019, Taeyeon released the digital single Four Seasons and its B-side "Blue". "Four Seasons" charted at number six on the Billboard World Digital Songs and topped South Korea's Gaon Digital Chart for two consecutive weeks. The song was certified platinum by the Korean Music Content Association for exceeding 100 million streams. In April 2019, Taeyeon embarked on her first concert tour in Japan, ~Signal~, which started on April 13 in Fukuoka. She subsequently released her first Japanese-language EP, Voice, on May 13. She also recorded "All About You" for the TVN television drama Hotel Del Luna; the song topped the Gaon Digital Chart for two consecutive weeks. Taeyeon released her second studio album, Purpose[/abum], on October 28, 2019. The album peaked at number two in South Korea and spawned the single "Spark", which reached number two on the Gaon Digital Chart. The album was reissued on January 15, 2020, featuring three bonus tracks including the single "Dear Me". Taeyeon embarked on The Unseen Concert in January 2020, and will hold the Japan Tour 2020, visiting eight cities.

In March 2020, S.M Entertainment announced that Taeyeon will release a digital single 'Happy' on March 9, the day of the singer's birthday. The song will feature elements of old-school doo-wop and R&B. It is a special gift for fans with lyrics about excitement and happiness found in time spent with loved ones.  The single was later delayed to May 4th, because of her father's passing on March 9th. <a href="https://www.last.fm/music/%ED%83%9C%EC%97%B0">Read more on Last.fm</a>. User-contributed text is available under the Creative Commons By-SA License; additional terms may apply.